influential members of the house ways and means committee legislation that the new savings-and-loan bailout agency capital , how can raise another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts creating would restrict introduced .
the bill , whose backers chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill. ) , include the resolution trust corp. would prevent from temporary working capital raising by an rtc-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget having .
the bill the rtc to restrict to treasury borrowings only , intend unless the agency specific congressional authorization receive .
rep. fortney stark ( d. , calif. ) , the bill 's chief sponsor `` such agency ` self-help ' borrowing is unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct treasury borrowing , '' said .
the complex financing plan in the s&l bailout law $ 30 billion raising from debt issued by the newly created rtc include .
this financing system was created in the new law in order the bailout spending to keep from the budget deficit swelling .
another $ 20 billion through treasury bonds , which lower interest rates pay would be raised .
but the rtc `` working '' capital the bad assets of thrifts that is sold , to maintain until the assets can be sold separately also require .
that debt the total spending for the bailout leaving at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years would be paid off as the assets is sold , .
`` it be a problem that to be resolved , clearly have '' david cooke , executive director of the rtc said .
the agency roughly $ 19 billion 34 insolvent s&ls , selling have already spent and it is likely 600 to sell or merge by the time the bailout conclude .
absent other working capital , he said , the rtc other thrift resolutions to delay until cash could be raised by the bad assets selling would be forced .
he `` we to wait until we have collected on those assets before we can move forward , would have '' said .
the complicated language in the huge new law the fight have muddied .
the law the rtc up to $ 5 billion to borrow from the treasury at any time do allow .
it the rtc 's total obligations $ 50 billion , may not exceed moreover , say but that figure is derived after notes and other debt , including and the market value of the assets the rtc hold subtracting from it .
opponents of the rtc 's working-capital plan , but congress more public debt , did n't anticipate or intend say and rep. charles schumer ( d. , n.y . ) the rtc oversight board has been remiss in congress informed not keeping said .
he `` that secrecy lead to a proposal like the one from ways and means , which sort of draconian , seems to me '' said .
`` the rtc a price of prior consultation on the hill to pay to have is going if they that kind of flexibility want '' .
the ways and means committee a hearing on the bill will hold next tuesday .
we 're about to see if advertising work .
a few big brokerage firms new ads a familiar message : investing , keep on the market be just fine trumpeting hard on the heels of friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that be followed , is rolling out .
their mission clients to keep from the market , fleeing as individual investors did in droves after the crash in october is
just days after the 1987 crash , major brokerage firms ads rushed out investors to calm .
this time around , they be moving even faster .
painewebber inc. a new television commercial filmed at 4 p.m. edt yesterday and it had on the air by last night .
fidelity investments new ads placed in newspapers yesterday , and another new ad appearing today wrote .
by yesterday afternoon shearson lehman hutton inc. new tv ads had already written .
it them running during tomorrow night 's world series broadcast considered but not to decided the market when recovered yesterday .
other brokerage firms , including merrill lynch & co. , potential new ad strategies was plotting out .
the brokerage firms a lesson learned the last time around , frightened investors the phone lines when flooded and the market fled in a panic .
this time , the firms was ready .
for example , fidelity , ads prepared several months ago in case of a market plunge .
the market when went into its free fall friday afternoon , the investment firm full pages in the monday editions of half a dozen newspapers ordered .
the ads fidelity 's automated 800-number touted beneath the huge headline , `` fidelity is ready for your call '' .
a fidelity spokesman the 800-line , which already was operating but which about , many clients did n't know about double the usual volume of calls received over the weekend say .
he `` a lot of investor confidence come from the fact that they can speak to us , '' say .
we to think ahead of time about it had '' .
today 's fidelity ad a step further , go investors to stay in the market or even to plunge in with fidelity encouraging .
underneath the headline `` diversification , '' it `` based on the events of the past week , all investors their portfolios them protect against the market 's volatility to help is balanced to know need '' counsel , .
it a few diversified fidelity funds to plug by name go on .
also painewebber was able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash .
in the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , the brokerage firm commercials taping in-house , its timing ultimately getting down fast enough a commercial to tape after the market closed and it rush on the air that night began .
it an arrangement with cable news network under which cnn its last-minute creations to air would agree also negotiated .
the new painewebber commercial , created with ad agency saatchi & saatchi co. , mary farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , particularly bullish sounding feature .
taped as the market just closed yesterday , it ms. farrell advising , `` we the market view here as going through a relatively normal cycle offer ... .
we that the stock market is still the place to be for long-term appreciation to feel continue '' .
the spot to appear three times on cnn last night was scheduled .
painewebber an even harder sell , specific stocks recommending considered .
it instead , settled on the clients who are its lifeline that money to keep in the market just urging .
john lampe , painewebber 's director of advertising `` we the worst thing anyone that can do the market which the prices just drive down further , go down and everything , dump to see is be saying '' say .
`` if you it owned and it liked friday , the true value have n't changed '' .
he `` this is n't 1987 revisited '' add , .
with the market fluctuating and then closing up more than 88 points yesterday , investment firms their approach to constantly revise had .
at shearson lehman , executives potential new commercials created friday night and throughout the weekend , to regroup yesterday afternoon then had .
the plan one of shearson 's easy-to-film , black-and-white `` we where stand '' commercials , which have been running occasionally in response to news events since 1985 to make had been .
the ad would have run during the world series tomorrow , the debut commercial of shearson 's new ad campaign , `` leadership by example '' replacing .
but in a meeting after the market closed yesterday , shearson executives not to go ahead with the stock-market ad decided .
`` we anything to be said need do n't think at this point .
'' cathleen b. stewart , executive vice president of marketing the market to be straightening out seem ; we a wait-and-see attitude , be taking say .
in any case , the brokerage firms new ads to create is clearly moving faster than they did in the fall of 1987 .
but it to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective remain .
in 1987 , despite a barrage of ads from most of the major investment firms , individuals ran en masse from the market .
the firms their hardest now must try that advertising can work this time around to prove .
edward eskandarian , former chairman of della femina , mcnamee wcrs/boston , an agreement in principle a majority stake in arnold advertising , a small boston shop to acquire reached .
terms was n't disclosed .
mr. eskandarian , who his della femina post resigned in september , chairman and chief executive of arnold become .
john verret , the agency 's president and chief executive , the title of president will retain .
mcdonald 's corp. , oak brook , ill. , arnold its estimated $ 4 million cooperative ad account for the hartford , conn. , area to handle separately , named .
that account had been handled by della femina , mcnamee wcrs .
a 142-page ad supplement to business week 's special `` corporate '' elite issue their clout to use the nation 's education crisis solve to help call on business leaders .
the supplement , the largest ever for the magazine , ads from 52 corporate advertisers include and kicks off a two-year business week initiative on education .
the magazine 10 % of the gross revenues from the supplement will distribute as grants to innovative teachers .
it be what 1 ) explain why we is like , well , ourselves rather than bo jackson ; 2 ) that it be possible in a lake that two feet deep average to drown cautions ; and 3 ) that 10,000 monkeys placed before 10,000 pianos 1,118 publishable rock 'n' roll tunes would produce predicts .
baseball , that game of the long haul , is the quintessential sport of the mean , and the mean ol' law caught up with the san francisco giants in the world series last weekend .
the team that runs dumped by the bushel on the chicago cubs in the national league playoffs was held to just one in two games by the home-team oakland a 's , the gang that had been done similarly unto by the los angeles dodgers and orel hershiser in last year 's tournament .
much of the damage by a 's who some catching up to do had morever , was accomplished .
in game two , on a cool sunday evening in this land of perpetual autumn , a lot of the catching up was done by the a 's catcher , terry steinbach .
he a 2-0 pitch from rick reuschel hit into the left-field stands in inning four his team 's lead to stretch from 2-1 to a decisive 5-1 , it where stayed .
so what if steinbach just seven home runs had struck in 130 regular-season games , and batted in the seventh position of the a 's lineup .
he `` if you your pitch , get and a good swing , take anything can happen , '' later remarked .
mark mcgwire , the big , red-haired oakland first baseman , three hits two more than he 'd had in the five-game dodger series in which he 'd gone 1-for-17 had in four at bats , .
the a-men nos. 6 through 9 , a.k.a. the `` bottom of the order , '' batting seven of their team 's 11 hits got and four of its runs scored in a 5-0 decision .
right-hander dave stewart the giants held to five hits to account for the zero on the other side of the saturday ledger .
that he was the a 's winningest pitcher during its american league campaign with a 21-9 mark , plus two wins over toronto in the playoffs , he some evening up coming , may have indicates but with the way his split-fingered fastball is behaving , that might not be this week .
the same goes for mike moore , another veteran who early struggles overcame but a run and four hits to permit the giants in seven innings in sunday 's contest .
giant manager roger craig `` every guy they put out there a better split-finger than the guy before , had '' marveled .
he be an ex-hurler who 's one of the leading gurus of the fashionable delivery , which look like a fastball until it dive beneath the lunging bat .
the upshot of the downshoot that the a 's go up two games to none in the best-of-seven fest into san francisco 's candlestick park tonight is .
the stat to reckon here with that about three of four clubs ( 29 of 39 ) that 2-0 series leads took it all to win went on say .
that be not an average giant rooters to soothe .
one that the home fans in this series of the subway bart ( that be a better name for a public conveyance than `` desire , '' you do n't think ? ) called would have been ecstatic over the proceedings , might think but they them observe in relative calm .
partisans of the two combatants sat side by side in the 49,000-plus seats of oakland coliseum , and while they their favorites cheered and the opposition , booed hostilities advanced no further , at least as far as i could see .
a few folks caps the colors and emblems of both teams bearing wearing even showed up .
`` i 'm for the giants today , but because they only lost yesterday .
i 'em both love .
'' david williams , a sacramento septuagenarian , the only thing i be rooting for is for the series seven games , to go said at the coliseum before sunday 's go .
i it be the latter , to believe choose although it probably spring from the fact that just about everyone out here , including the a 's and giants , is originally from somewhere else .
it suffice that if this was a new york yankees-mets series , or one between the chicago cubs and white sox ( hey , it be possible ) , you uniformed police 'd need in every other seat opposing fans , to separate and only the suicidal their bonnets would bifurcate to say .
the a 's a lot of heroes to root for anyway , gave you .
in the opening game , besides steinbach and stewart , walt weiss , a twiggy-looking , second-year shortstop who a couple months of the season had lost to knee surgery there was .
he was flawless afield ( ditto in game two ) , a runner moved along in the a 's three-run second inning , and homered for his team 's final tally .
such his reputation among the east bay bashers is that he his first career home run when hit last season , the fan who it caught the ball to turn over to him in return for an autograph agreed .
an a 's co-hero of the second game was rickey henderson , who the hot side of the hot-cold equation exemplify .
he toronto smoked in the playoffs with six hits , seven walks and eight stolen bases in 22 at bats , and that continued by going 3-for-3 at the plate sunday , along with walking , a base stealing and a run scoring .
he `` when you 're in the groove , you every ball see tremendously , '' lectured .
the cold guys in the set was will clark , kevin mitchell and matt williams , the giants ' 3-4-5 hitters .
they combined for 25 hits , six home runs and 24 runs batted in in the five games against the cubs .
they a collective 5-for-24 went here , with zero homers and ribbies .
san francisco batting coach dusty baker `` i believe in the law of averages , '' declared after game two .
`` i a so-so hitter who 's hot come up for the other side 'd rather see than a good hitter who 's cold '' .
but the old dodger slugger no prediction about good times when would return to his side wisely offered .
he `` it when go , you you it when 'll get back , never know '' said .
`` that be baseball .
ncr corp. a 10 % drop in third-quarter net income , reported intense competition that its gross profit margins to dip caused citing .
net income for the quarter roughly what analysts had expected fell to $ 93.1 million from $ 103.1 million , .
but per-share profit only 2 % dropped to $ 1.23 a share from $ 1.26 a share , as the company its stock buy-back plan continued .
average shares outstanding dropped to 75.8 million from 82.1 million .
revenue 1 % fell to $ 1.39 billion from $ 1.41 billion .
the computer maker , which more than half its goods sell outside the u.s. , `` the negative effect of a stronger u.s. dollar its fourth-quarter performance will adversely affect '' and `` difficult it 1988 results to better make '' also said .
ncr revenue a world-wide softening of the computer markets reflecting declined both in the u.s. and overseas , said .
the company , orders in the u.s. `` good gains '' showed during the latest quarter however , said .
analysts those gains estimate at 12 % to 13 % , a good part of it coming from large orders placed by a few of ncr 's major customers .
sanjiv g. hingorani , an analyst for salomon brothers inc in addition to a general slowing of the computer industry , ncr , which automated teller machines and computerized cash registers , sell is also affected by the retail and financial sectors , `` areas of the economy that have generally not been robust , '' note .
ncr these factors , combined with a strong dollar , the current quarter 's results , should negatively affect said .
in the year-earlier fourth quarter , ncr profit of $ 149.6 million , or $ 1.85 a share , had on revenue of $ 1.8 billion .
mr. hingorani he his full-year estimates for 1989 lowered to $ 5.35 a share from $ 5.50 a share said .
revenue projections was slashed to $ 6.03 billion from $ 6.20 billion .
last year , ncr net income of $ 439.3 million , or $ 5.33 a share , had on $ 5.99 billion in revenue .
for the nine months , the company 's earnings 9 % fell to $ 264.6 million , or $ 3.40 a share , from $ 289.7 million , or $ 3.49 a share .
revenues 1 % declined to $ 4.17 billion from $ 4.19 billion .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , ncr shares 75 cents fell to close at $ 57 .
your sept. 19 article `` wall street firms analysts ' pay link to performance , '' concerning i that wall street is finally tuning in to the hard , cold facts of the real working world be delighted .
if the firms is serious , the practice however , why limit to the poor , maligned analysts whose ability to see into the future is fragile at best ?
the same harsh standards why not extend to the sales force , and a base salary with annual bonus based on they how much money made for their clients during the year pay brokers ?
that a lot of account-churning , should stop and a stock market driven only by professional concern , careful thought and good sense produce .
steve clark , a shearson lehman hutton inc. trader , reported for work at 5 a.m. , two and a half hours before the usual monday morning strategy meeting .
at jefferies & co. , j. francis palamara the office did n't reach until 5:30 a.m. , but then he had been up most of the night at home .
he `` i calls had all night long from the states , '' said .
`` i every hour -- 1:30 , 2:30 , 3:30 , 4:30 was woken up .
people is looking for possible opportunities to buy , but nobody their chin to stick out want '' .
for many of london 's securities traders , it was a day that started nervously in the small hours .
by lunchtime , the selling was at near-panic fever .
but as the day ended in a frantic wall street-inspired rally , the city a sigh of relief breathed .
so it went yesterday in the trading rooms of london 's financial district .
in the wake of wall street 's plunge last friday , the london market especially vulnerable was considered .
and before the opening of trading here yesterday , all eyes was on early trading in tokyo for a clue as how widespread the fallout to might be .
by the time trading officially got under way at 9 a.m. , the news from asia was in .
and it mixed signals left for london .
tokyo stocks closed off a significant but less-than-alarming 1.8 % on thin volume ; hong kong stocks 6.5 % declined in orderly trading .
at jefferies ' trading room on finsbury circus , a stately circle at the edge of the financial district , desktop computer screens the london market 's major barometer -- the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index displayed .
red figures on the screens falling stocks indicated ; blue figures , rising stocks .
the reds the blues , right away , outnumbered 80 to 20 , as the index opened off 157.1 points , or 7 % at 2076.8 , .
mr. palamara , a big , good-humored new york native who the 15-trader office run `` i concern , see but i any panic , do n't see '' said .
the jefferies office , a branch of the los angeles-based firm , it played conservatively , risk to avoid seeking .
david smith , who trading in all non-u.s. stocks head `` this is not the sort of market a big position to have in , '' said .
`` we a very tight book to run tend '' .
jefferies most of its energies buyers and sellers , to match trying spent in the morning and many buyers there was n't .
mr. smith `` all the takeover stocks -- scottish & newcastle , b.a.t , drg -- is getting pretty well pasted this morning , '' said .
a 7,500-share `` sell '' order for scottish & newcastle seconds later , came in .
for the third time in 15 minutes , a trader next to mr. smith the no-smoking area left a cigarette to have .
on the screens , only two forlorn blue figures remained , but the index a few points had recovered and was off about 140 .
mr. smith `` because tokyo did n't collapse , 's a little stock , pick up let '' said .
he 7,500 shares of reuters targeted and a button punched other dealers ' price quotes to call up on his screen .
the vivid yellow figures the best price showed at 845 pence , ( $ 13.27 ) and mr. smith 's traders feelers putting out started .
but the market a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling , sensed and the quotes immediately jumped to 850 pence .
mr. smith `` i to buy , when want they run from you -- they their prices , changing keep '' said .
`` it be very frustrating . ''
he his search for the reuters shares temporarily abandoned .
by this time , it was 4:30 a.m. in new york , and mr. smith a call from a new york customer an opinion on the british stock market , which troubles of its own had been having even before friday 's new york market break wanting fielded .
`` fundamentally dangerous ... , '' mr. smith said , almost in a whisper , `` ... . fundamentally weak ... fairly vulnerable still ... extremely dangerously poised ...
we be in for a lot of turbulence ... . ''
he was right .
by midday , the london market was in full retreat .
danny linger , a pit trader who was standing outside the london international financial futures exchange `` it be falling like a stone , '' said .
only half the usual lunchtime crowd gathered at the tony corney & barrow wine bar on old broad street nearby .
conversation was subdued as most patrons the latest market statistics watched on television .
at 12:49 p.m. , the index its low , 2029.7 , off 204.2 points hit .
mr. clark , the shearson trader , `` france the limit opened down , off at least 10 % if you the index , could calculate which you could n't , '' said early in the afternoon .
`` spain is down 10 % and suspended , sweden be down 8 % , norway 11 % .
this market have been very badly damaged '' .
as 2:30 p.m. -- wall street 's opening time -- neared , shearson traders and salesmen bets on the new york market how low would open traded .
in the center of the trading floor , chief trader roger streeter and two colleagues scrambled as soon as the new york market opened -- more than 60 points plummeting in the first few minutes for the telephones .
they an opportunity created by the sell-off saw .
as wall street traders american depositary receipts in jaguar plc , dumped mr. streeter and trader sam ruiz them bought to resell in the u.k .
investors here ford motor co. or general motors corp. to bid for jaguar still expect .
after about 45 minutes , the u.s. markets suddenly , rallied .
one trader `` the mmi better , have gone '' shouted at about 3:15 london time , as the u.s. major markets index contract a turnabout suddenly indicated .
as wall street strengthened , the london trading room wild went .
traders shouted as their screens an ever-narrowing loss on wall street posted .
wall street then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day .
`` rally ! rally ! rally ! '' shearson trader andy rosen , shouted more jaguar shares selling .
`` this is panic buying ! ''
as the london market rallied , some whether the weekend of worrying and jitters had been worth it wondered .
the london index closed off 70.5 , or about 3.3 % at 2163.4 , its high for the day , .
ambassador paul nitze 's statement ( notable & quotable , sept. 20 ) , `` if you a million people working for you , have every bad thing that one chance in a million of going wrong have will go wrong at least once a year , '' is a pretty negative way of looking at things .
is n't it just as fair that if you a million people working for you , have every good thing that one chance in a million of going right have will go right at least once a year to say ?
the house aviation subcommittee a bill that authority leveraged buy-outs of major u.s. airlines to review and approve would give the transportation secretary approved .
the collapsed plan ual corp. , parent of united airlines , to acquire quick action on the legislation , introduced wednesday and approved by the subcommittee on a voice vote yesterday spurred .
the bill to be taken up by the public works and transportation committee tomorrow , is expected and a floor vote by next week will be urged .
the measure criticism from the bush administration and a parting shot from financier donald trump , who yesterday his takeover bid for amr corp. , the parent of american airlines withdrew drew .
in a letter to subcommittee chairman james oberstar ( d. , minn. ) , mr. trump the bill criticized as an explicit effort his bid for amr , to thwart and it contributed to the collapse of the deal said .
elaine chao , deputy transportation secretary , a letter the administration 's opposition to the bill `` in its present form '' to express also sent .
rep. oberstar mr. trump 's allegations brushed off as an `` excuse for his own deal failing '' .
he the fact that the other letter had n't come from transportation secretary samuel skinner `` wiggle room '' there is in the administration 's position indicated also said .
mr. oberstar and other committee members that the legislation was n't a response to any particular market situation repeatedly stressed .
but they the ual and amr examples cited as reasons this legislation to enact to move quickly .
aides both in the house and senate the withdrawal of the trump bid for amr is n't likely efforts the legislation to push to deflate said .
one senate aide `` it be still on the fast track and we it , to do still want '' said .
the bill is aimed at the concern that an airline costly safety measures might sacrifice the debt incurred in a leveraged buy-out to pay off addressing .
the transportation secretary clearly established authority to block mergers , currently , do n't have but the drastic step of the operating certificate of any carrier the official unfit consider revoking can take .
supporters of the legislation the bill view as an effort stability and certainty to add to the airline-acquisition process , and the safety and fitness of the industry to preserve .
in general , the bill a 30-day review period would give the transportation department before 15 % or more of the voting stock of a major u.s. air carrier could be acquired .
it the acquiring party the transportation secretary to notify and all information relevant the intent of the acquisition to determining to provide also would require .
the bill the secretary a buy-out to reject if sufficient information have n't been provided , or if the buy-out is likely the carrier to weaken financially , result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets , or control give to a foreign interest would allow .
if more information is needed , the secretary authority the review period to extend 20 days would have .
all the witnesses , both congressmen and industry experts , support for the bill expressed in order profiteers to prevent from cashing in on airline profits at the expense of safe , cost-effective service .
but several committee members disapproved , some mr. trump 's claim that the threat of regulation the failure of the ual deal and the stock-market plunge caused backing .
one of the major concerns expressed by the dissenters that large airlines would be prohibited from themselves divesting of smaller entities and independent spin-off companies producing was .
in a possible prelude to the resumption of talks between boeing co. and striking machinists union members , a federal mediator representatives of the two sides will meet with him tomorrow said .
doug hammond , the mediator , who the agreement to meet a first step toward a resumption of negotiations called `` it could be a long meeting or it could be a short one , '' said .
a boeing spokesman `` we that talks is scheduled again be encouraged but beyond that , we no expression of expectations , have made '' said .
the machinists union a three-year contract offer that a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus some bonuses would have provided have rejected .
boeing currently , average pay for machinists is $ 13.39 an hour , said .
now in its 13th day , the strike about 55,000 machinists have idled and delivery of some jetliners to delay has started .
with a strike fund of about $ 100 million , the union it was prepared for a long strike had said .
after the third week on strike , union members $ 100 a week receiving from the fund will begin .
work at boeing continue with supervisors and other non-striking personnel the lines manning .
and at the company 's wichita , kan. , plant , about 2,400 of the 11,700 machinists still are working , boeing said .
under kansas right-to-work laws , contracts workers to be union members can not require .
boeing how many employees is working at its giant renton , wash. , plant to say have declined .
union officials could n't be reached for comment .
dpc acquisition partners , a hostile suitor for dataproducts corp. , it a tender offer for the computer printer maker 's common stock to launch intend said .
dpc , a group led by the new york investment firm crescott inc. , it preliminary materials to file with the securities and exchange commission a shareholder solicitation dataproducts ' board to oust regarding plan also said .
dpc a 7.8 % stake in dataproducts hold and a $ 15-a-share bid for the company made in may , but dataproducts management the $ 283.7 million proposal unacceptable considered .
a dpc spokesman to elaborate on the group 's new plan declined .
in american stock exchange composite trading yesterday , dataproducts shares 62.5 cents jumped to close at $ 9.375 .
dataproducts , which a buyer had been seeking for several months , a restructuring plan announced in september and itself took off the auction block .
the company 's restructuring plans to split into three sectors , to phase out domestic printer manufacturing operations and its new england subsidiary to sell include .
as part of the plan , dataproducts a pact $ 63 million of its real estate holdings to sell to trizec properties inc. , a unit of canada 's trizec corp announced .
jack davis , dataproducts ' president , chairman and chief executive officer , `` the company is at a loss dpc 's intentions to understand '' said .
he today 's announcement `` opportunistic and disruptive '' called and the company to proceed with its restructuring intend said .
share prices plummeted across europe yesterday in response to friday 's new york sell-off , but some issues a late comeback staged after wall street opened without another rout .
european investors further reason for optimism have today , after the u.s. rebound .
the frankfurt stock exchange , which closed before the new york exchanges opened , was the hardest hit of the major european markets , with the dax index 12.8 % dropping .
in london , prices plummeted in early trading and were off as much as 9 % before strong to close down only 3.2 % coming back after the new york opening .
west german economics minister helmut haussmann `` in my view , the stock market will stabilize relatively quickly said , .
there may be one or other psychological or technical reactions , but they is n't based on fundamentals .
the economy of west germany and the ec -lcb- european community -rcb- is highly stable . ''
paris , which has been the center of speculation fever in recent weeks , also was hard hit .
share prices fell in milan , amsterdam , zurich , madrid and stockholm .
prices in brussels , a computer breakdown trading , where disrupted also tumbled .
the dax index of 30 west german blue chips 12.8 % , a one-day record , the summer 's gains wiping out plunged .
the index closed down 203.56 points at 1385.72 , .
by comparison , on black monday , the new index 9.4 % , two years ago would have dropped according to a projection by the exchange .
investors may have reacted so strongly to friday 's u.s. stock market loss because they vivid memories of the frankfurt exchange 's 35 % of its value losing in the 1987 crash and its wake had .
this time , many small investors however , may have been hurt by acting so swiftly .
andreas insam , an investment adviser for the bank in liechtenstein 's frankfurt branch `` they all went in the wrong direction , '' said .
he he clients selected west german blue chips to buy after they fell by about 10 % told said .
after the opening 30 minutes was delayed because of the crush of sell orders , frankfurt 's normal two-hour trading session 75 minutes was extended the heavy volume to handle .
nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank ag `` the beginning was chaotic , '' said .
`` it three-quarters of an hour took before enough prices a reading on the market to get could be worked out '' .
institutional investors and bankers , many of whom far eastern markets , watching spent the night before in their offices was cautiously optimistic after the mild 1.8 % decline in tokyo stock prices .
`` everybody was still confident , including most institutional investors .
'' norbert braeuer , a senior trader for hessische landesbank that is a little everybody why was surprised by the storm of sell orders from small private investors , said .
some big institutions , including banks , lower-priced shares picking up began late yesterday , but most investors what would happen in new york to see before acting wanted .
but if wall street to stabilize , even continue analysts here the latest blow to investor confidence a swift recovery for the frankfurt exchange , which signs of weakness already was showing after the dax had slipped from a 1989 high of 1657.61 on sept. 8 could inhibit say .
a 16.3 % drop for mannesmann ag and dresdner bank ag 's 9.6 % decline was especially problematic for their respective boards , whose plans for major rights issues in november could now be in jeopardy .
last month dresdner bank it 1.2 billion marks ( $ 642.2 million ) to raise by four million shares issuing at 300 marks each hoped said .
yesterday 's market dresdner 's share price yet cropped by 33 marks to 309 marks a share , little incentive for investors to subscribe to the standing price unless the market recover quickly leaving .
headed toward a record drop at midday , the london stock market two-thirds of its losses recouped in the wake of new york 's early rally .
the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index closed off 70.5 points , at 2163.4 , its high for the day , after 204.2 points having plunged at 12:49 p.m .
it was big institutions such as norwich union insurance group , scottish amicable investment managers and standard life assurance co. that the rally spearheaded .
attracted by low prices and encouraged by new york 's performance , they equities scooped up across the board .
volume was 959.3 million shares , more than triple recent levels .
late buying a parachute gave the paris bourse after its free fall early in the day .
the cac general index ended down 5.4 % at 523.6 , a drop of 29.6 points from friday .
michel vigier , a partner in brokerage firm cholet dupont `` a volatility in the market i that have never seen before , there was '' said .
`` wall street when turned around shortly after the opening , panic buying there was in paris '' .
brokers that as the news that wall street was moving up , spread traders who sell orders to place had called their line changed in mid-conversation , buys ordering instead said .
trading was driven primarily by small investors and speculators , with large institutions waiting on the sidelines until late in the day .
wall street when turned , the big boys the market , however , entered looking for bargains .
j.p. morgan & co. swung to a loss in the third quarter , while ncnb corp. net income more than doubled , reported and security pacific corp. net 10 % rose .
as expected , j.p. morgan , a $ 1.82 billion net loss for the quarter , posted the new york bank 's decision last month $ 2 billion to add to reserves for losses on loans to less-developed countries reflecting .
the reserve addition among a few major u.s. banks that nearly all their medium and long-term portfolios to less-developed countries have covered with reserves the parent of morgan guaranty trust co. placed .
the latest quarter 's loss $ 9.92 a share equal .
in the year-earlier quarter , morgan $ 233.6 million , or $ 1.25 a share earned .
george m. salem , analyst at prudential-bache securities inc. , the results `` mildly disappointing '' called .
mr. salem the $ 2 billion provision excluding and allowing for the taxes morgan paid , earnings was about 65 cents a share , said .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , morgan $ 1.50 a share climbed to $ 44.125 .
net interest income 27 % sank in the quarter to $ 254 million from $ 347 million .
morgan the interest rate on short-term funds , which banks longer-term loans to customers , to finance borrow was `` sharply higher , '' said .
morgan $ 2 million of interest payments on its medium and long-term brazilian loans received ; morgan they interest , had been accruing net interest income would have been $ 35 million higher in the quarter , said .
such loans to argentina classified as non-accruing , $ 10 million of interest income costing the bank in the third period also remain .
income from sources other than interest 12 % climbed to $ 414 million , higher corporate-finance and other fees and gains on sales of investment securities reflecting .
the bank `` these increases was partly offset '' by lower trading-related income , said .
non-interest expenses 16 % grew to $ 496 million .
ncnb corp. 's net income more than doubled in the period , largely because of continued strong performance by the bank 's texas operations .
the charlotte , n.c. , company earnings rose to $ 143.6 million , or $ 1.45 a share , from $ 58.9 million , or 69 cents a share , a year earlier said .
the latest quarter a gain of $ 56.1 million , or 59 cents a share , related to the purchase of the remaining 51 % of ncnb texas national bank from the federal deposit insurance corp included .
the strong performance , however , contrasted with an unexpectedly large increase in the size of ncnb 's problem loans , particularly in the southeast .
in the third quarter , nonperforming assets jumped to $ 474.1 million , or 1.43 % of net loans and leases , from $ 232.8 million , or 1.13 % in the second quarter .
nonperformers $ 230.8 million , or 1.27 % totaled in the year-ago third quarter .
a $ 33 million loan , which ncnb `` it to be fully repaid early in the fourth quarter , with no loss , expect '' said included is in the increase in the most recent quarter .
the deterioration in credit quality strong loan growth of 17 % in ncnb 's southeast operations , as well as a 28 % growth in deposits resulting from an aggressive marketing campaign offset .
the higher rates paid on deposits ncnb 's net interest margin in the southeast squeeze to 3.38 % from 3.80 % a year earlier also helped .
in big board composite trading yesterday , ncnb $ 3.50 a share , jumped to $ 51 .
results was released after the market closed .
ncnb texas national , formed from the remnants of of the failed first republicbank corp. of dallas , $ 76.9 million contributed to ncnb 's bottom line in the third quarter .
ncnb its third-quarter results 100 % of earnings of the texas operation since aug. 1 reflect said .
ncnb some $ 1.9 billion in new capital raised during the quarter the ncnb texas purchase , to complete and several small failed thrifts to acquire its regional franchise to fill out .
last week , the banking company it both freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , and university federal savings association of san antonio , texas , purchased for $ 169.4 million said .
in the first nine months , ncnb 's net income 65 % climbed to $ 310.9 million , or $ 3.30 a share , from $ 188.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share , a year earlier .
security pacific 's earnings growth slowed in the third quarter , but the los angeles bank holding company was still able a 10 % increase in net income to post because of robust growth in residential real-estate and consumer loans .
the company the gain a 33 % increase in real estate loans ( mainly residential ) , and a 19 % rise in consumer loans reflecting resulted mainly from a $ 54 million increase in net interest income , said .
these high-yielding loans some low-yielding assets such as inter-bank loans , which to decrease was allowed in effect replaced .
as a result , security pacific 's net interest margin only 13 basis points , a more mild decrease than some major banks outside california , which more sluggish earnings have been reporting fell .
security pacific shares closed down 37.5 cents , at $ 44.625 , in big board composite trading .
the earnings a 0.89 % return on assets for security pacific , and an 18.9 % return on equity represent .
the loan growth continuing real-estate loan losses in the depressed arizona market offset .
security pacific a 33 % increase in net credit losses for the quarter , to $ 109 million from $ 81.9 million in the year-ago period reported .
nonperforming loans grew slightly to $ 1.75 billion at sept. 30 , from $ 1.7 billion a year ago .
security pacific 's loan-loss provision was down 22 % , or $ 30.4 million , because it added the year before to its foreign-debt reserve .
non-interest income 6 % fell in the quarter , mainly because of an unusual gain a year earlier from the sale of hong kong banking operations .
non-interest expense only 4 % grew in the period .
lin broadcasting corp. it a position on a revised tender offer by mccaw cellular communications inc. lin to buy wo n't take and has asked for clarification of the offer said .
the new offer , which 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern , seek is for $ 125 a share for 22 million lin shares .
mccaw 's revised tender offer mccaw an auction process to begin in july 1994 that remaining holders would buy out at a per-share price roughly equivalent a third party what to pay for all of lin to might then have would require .
lin mccaw its tender offer , which an agreement between bellsouth corp. and lin their cellular-telephone businesses to merge challenge to clarify is asking .
bellsouth lin that `` it would shortly respond to the mccaw proposal in as full and effective a manner as is warranted '' have notified .
the lin board holders may be misled by the provision in the mccaw proposal that `` guarantees '' private market value after five years for the remaining shares said .
the lin board mccaw `` no obligation to purchase '' have and the definition of private market value is uncertain , said .
the board that mccaw would be able lin 's operations to control and `` in a manner which its private market value and attractiveness to a third-party purchaser could diminish in five years lin could , therefore , operate '' added .
in national over-the-counter trading , lin closed down $ 2.75 at $ 104.75 , .
a group of institutional investors in telerate inc. that dow jones & co. 's $ 18-a-share offer for the electronic financial information services company is `` grossly inadequate '' said .
in a letter filed with the securities and exchange commission , the group , which about 4.5 million telerate shares , or about 4.7 % of the shares outstanding , hold said `` ... '' at present none of us an offer for less than $ 25 per share would be fair believe and some that $ 25 is too low believe .
the letter was dated oct. 6 .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , telerate shares closed down 75 cents a share yesterday at $ 18.875 , .
dow jones , publisher of the wall street journal , an $ 18-a-share , or $ 576 million , tender offer the remaining telerate shares outstanding to acquire have launched ; dow jones 67 % of telerate own .
telerate the offer , which expires nov. 3 have rejected .
the group putnam cos. and various affiliates based in boston ; wells fargo bank , san francisco ; the california public employees retirement system , sacramento , calif. , and t. rowe price associates inc. , baltimore include .
among other issues , the group 's letter it `` concern as whether dow jones 's offer the applicable requirements of procedural fairness to meet '' have said .
a spokesman for dow jones he the group 's filing , had n't seen said but `` dow jones obviously disagree with their conclusions added , .
our offer any and all shares tendered at $ 18 a share to buy is .
u.s. trade representative carla hills the first dispute-settlement panel set up under the u.s.-canadian `` free '' trade agreement that canada 's restrictions on exports of pacific salmon and herring the accord violate have ruled said .
mrs. hills the u.s. and canada the dispute to resolve have until nov. 13 said .
if a solution is n't reached by then , she said , the u.s. the right some trade concessions to canada equivalent in value to the losses suffered by u.s. fish-processing companies in alaska and the pacific northwest to suspend would have .
in ottawa , canadian trade minister john crosbie the dispute-settlement panel the `` legitimacy of canada 's position on the use of these landing requirements these important fisheries to conserve and manage '' accepted however , said .
questioned about the seeming contradiction in the u.s. and canadian government views of the panel 's report , an aide for mrs. hills the panel that `` the canadian trade restrictions is illegal '' had clearly ruled said .
the u.s. trade representative a dollar estimate to put on the losses resulting from the canadian export restrictions declined .
canada an export prohibition that was replaced by regulations that such fish to be brought ashore prior to export in british columbia by commercial fishermen had requiring initially had .
this action was defended by the canadian government on conservation grounds .
mrs. hills that the dispute-settlement panel this canadian government argument rejected said yesterday .
she `` we that canada will comply with the panel 's ruling that the `` landing requirement '' also must be ended , fully expect '' said .
an international panel set up under the rules of the general agreement on tariffs and trade in geneva that the original canadian fish-export restrictions gatt rules violated earlier , determined .
mrs. hills the u.s. any delays wo n't accept after nov. 13 because u.s. fish-processing firms the next season 's catch to purchase enter into contracts in the fall said .
she the canadian restrictions must be removed before such contracts is concluded said .
to spend a carefree , idle day , duty when call , no heed , to pay the precious hours to while away -- character what you need is .
the guy who an intercept throw 'cause his receiver slip that we at home his lips can read should somehow be advised .
bancoklahoma corp. it a restructuring agreement previously agreed to by the federal deposit insurance corp. , creditor banks and subordinated debenture holders completed said .
the plan the bank holding company its bank and debenture obligations to retire through exchanges of cash and equity would permit .
the fdic , which in 1986 $ 130 million in open-bank assistance provided to bancoklahoma 's bank of oklahoma , tulsa , unit $ 90 million in preferred stock to maintain in the tulsa bank unit will continue .
in exchange for the other $ 40 million , the fdic additional warrants it 60 % of bancoklahoma 's common stock outstanding , to buy up from the 55 % option the fdic received under terms of the 1986 capital infusion entitling will receive .
the bank holding company in exchange for the $ 76 million they is owed , creditor banks 3.9 million shares of bancoklahoma common stock and the proceeds from the future sales of four subsidiary banks to private buyers , will receive said .
the company also under the agreement , debenture holders one million shares of common stock will get in exchange for $ 7.7 million in debentures and holders of bancoklahoma 's series a preferred stock 1.25 shares of common stock for every share of preferred they own , will receive said .
were it true that a weak currency the way for trade surpluses , pave then presumably argentina would be the center of today 's global economy .
bsn corp. it an offer will begin tomorrow up to one million of its common shares and all of its $ 16.6 million in 7 3/4 % convertible debentures due 2001 to exchange for a package of new debt and common stock warrants said .
under terms of the offer , the sporting goods maker $ 9 face amount of 9 1/4 % subordinated notes due 1996 and one warrant will swap for each common share .
each warrant the holder one bsn share to buy for $ 10.75 a share at any time over the next seven years allow .
bsn 4.6 million common shares outstanding currently have .
bsn $ 850 face amount of new notes and 64 common-stock warrants also is offering for each $ 1,000 face amount of its convertible debt outstanding .
the company it the warrants can redeem at its option for $ 1 each said .
the offer is n't contingent on a certain amount of debt or stock being exchanged .
bsn it the offer is making its capital to shrink and shareholder value increase said .
michael j. blumenfeld , president if all the bondholders and holders of one million common shares the offer , accept bsn its debt will increase by $ 9 million , but it a $ 2 million gain from the old debt , retiring also will recognize said .
he `` we sufficient cash flow that , to handle have '' said .
the offers to expire in mid to late november is scheduled .
merrill lynch & co. 's net income 37 % , dropped while bear stearns cos. a 7.5 % gain in net , posted and painewebber group inc. 's profit fell , but would have risen a year ago without a special gain .
total revenue $ 2.83 billion , reached up 10 % from $ 2.57 billion .
the firm 's drop in net weaker revenue in transactions for its own account -- a decline of 19 % to $ 314.6 million on reduced revenue from fixed-income securities trading reflected .
investment banking revenue 22 % fell to $ 296.6 million on fewer equity and municipal underwritings .
merrill lynch 's commission revenue 21 % , grew however , to $ 462.8 million , on higher share prices and volume and on strong sales of mutual funds .
revenue derived from interest and dividends 30 % jumped to $ 1.4 billion .
asset-management fee revenue 12 % grew to $ 151 million .
the brokerage a loss of $ 2.2 million from the discontinued operations and disposal of its fine homes international limited partnership real-estate subsidiary also reported .
bear stearns net in the first quarter ended sept. 29 $ 22.1 million , or 23 cents a share , reached from $ 20.5 million , or 20 cents a share , in the year-earlier quarter said .
gross revenue 21 % rose to $ 580.4 million from $ 478.9 million .
the securities firm profit from trading for its own account dropped , said .
investment banking revenue 25 % , climbed while commission revenue 31 % advanced on a stronger retail market .
bear stearns is the holding company for bear , stearns & co. , the investment banking and brokerage firm .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , bear stearns shares closed down 25 cents at $ 13.625 , .
painewebber net income for the third quarter of $ 16.8 million , or 41 cents a share , a `` broad-based improvement '' in the company 's core businesses reflecting separately , posted .
retail profit surged , but the company it was only a `` modest contributor '' to third-quarter results said .
a year ago , net at the new york investment banking firm was $ 20.9 million , or 50 cents a share , including a special pretax gain of $ 46.3 million from the sale of the company 's interest in national car rental systems inc .
revenue was $ 444.9 million , including net interest , down slightly from $ 450.7 million .
in big board composite trading yesterday , painewebber closed up 75 cents at $ 18.50 , .
seafirst corp. it an agreement with builder martin selig its headquarters building , the columbia seafirst center , to purchase for $ 354 million signed said .
purchase of the 76-story structure is subject to execution of a definitive agreement , approval by the boards of seafirst and its parent company bankamerica corp. , and approval by regulators .
the market upheaval any cash crunch apparently have n't triggered yet -- .
individual investors , investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates liquidity and payment problems can suffer stocks when dive ; those investors their holdings to buy often borrow heavily and the stocks use as collateral for loans .
but several large banks they no signs of unusual demand for credit that such difficulties would signal detected said yesterday .
one official at a top 10 bank `` we nothing out of the ordinary , be seeing '' said .
`` that be good news , because we all swim in this water . ''
another executive at a big bank `` we was all a little goosey over the weekend what would happen -lcb- monday -rcb- , to forecast trying but it 's been very quiet added : .
what happened friday that financial markets another meltdown in prices to handle is not yet sufficiently coordinated shows .
no fiddling with systems and procedures markets will ever prevent from a panic wave of selling suffering .
but markets can operate with greater or lesser efficiency .
after the 1987 plunge , markets that it would be wise trading to halt panic conditions whenever arose agreed .
the new york stock exchange two specific circuit breakers : if the dow jones index 250 points fall in a day , the exchange will halt trading for one hour ; if the decline 400 points , hit the exchange will close for an additional two hours adopted .
the rationale that an interruption of trading investors their strategies , to reconsider sellers calm and buyers the market to enter at indicated new price levels lead will allow is .
it is impossible to whether that theory is realistic know .
a temporary cessation of trading a selling panic may indeed discourage from feeding on itself .
but the possibility that markets shutting down fears will intensify and an even more abrupt slide in prices cause there is also .
the futures exchanges their own pre-set circuit breakers followed and shut down at about 3 p.m. for 30 minutes , after the standard & poor 's 500 stock index 12 points , or about 100 points on the dow jones index had fallen .
options markets trading in many securities stopped .
under its own rules , the new york stock exchange , open remained .
with nowhere else to go , sellers , and particularly program traders , all their selling focused on the new york stock exchange .
as liquidity on that market weakened , prices fell sharply .
had the futures and options markets been open , additional liquidity would have been provided and the decline , most probably , would have been less intense .
at 3:30 , after intense telephone negotiations between the trading markets and washington , the futures exchanges reopened .
futures trading , however , was halted altogether at 3:45 , after the futures markets an additional 30 points , which is the daily limit for price declines had dropped .
at this point , the options markets also shut down and all sales to be handled by the new york stock exchange once more left .
it is time that the new york stock exchange , the futures markets and the options markets , so closely intertwined as one market to constitute effectively though physically separate , have actually become to recognize .
traders their strategies can vary and their orders execute in any one of them .
it no sense therefore make for each market different circuit breakers to adopt .
synchronized circuit breakers the slide in prices on friday , would not have halted but they probably would have made for smoother , less volatile executions .
it 's time for the exchanges and the securities and exchange commission to agree on joint conditions for trading halting or open staying .
's let one market shut down for 30 minutes the dow 100 points when decline and another shut down for an hour after a 250-point decline not have .
the need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials will disappear once rules is in place that circuit breakers synchronize in all markets .
if they to be applied at all , is the new circuit breakers , that futures and options trading continue as long as the new york stock exchange open remain will require .
the rules should be established by agreement of the officials of all affected exchanges acting under the oversight and with the approval of the government regulatory agencies .
should the sec and the commodities futures trading commission ( which , with the sec , the chicago stock-index markets regulates ) be unable to agree , the issue to be resolved by decision of the treasury secretary may have .
in many ways , our financial markets a decline to handle is better prepared today than they was two years ago .
the new york stock exchange the capacity a volume of nearly a billion shares a day to handle now have .
telephone service have been improved for customers their brokers , to reach trying and specialists -- who i should stay , believe despite the urgings of some post-crash critics -- larger capital positions have .
( of course , specialists ' actions alone a major crack in stock prices can never prevent .
the fact that trading in some stocks closed early friday and opened late monday because of an excess of sell orders witness ) .
but the task of market performance improving unfinished remain .
mr. freund , former chief economist of the new york stock exchange , is a professor of economics at pace university 's business school in new york .
a unified europe labor problems and prospects for u.s. firms pose .
general electric senior vice president frank doyle the `` social dimension '' -- worker concerns -- of the european community 's plan its internal borders to open in 1992 the effort could set `` off the rails '' if not done reasonably , say .
he u.s. companies to expand in europe wanting in nations such as west germany , which a big consulting role play in management decisions , `` tough pressure '' from unions face say .
fmc corp. and baxter international unions plant relocations and needed restructuring , which layoffs mean also wo n't like say .
many employers moving to southern countries such as spain and italy , where wages is low and unions is weaker have already begun ; demand for trained labor and managers will rise there , fmc say .
pfizer , fluor and ge big `` ec '' 92 pluses : a push for job training and ease in moving and workers finding see .
a federal judge , so said in a case two players for the minor league bluefield , va. , orioles , a baltimore farm team involving .
the players was heckled by a patron during a july 4 , 1988 , game with the martinsville phillies .
the judge like its parent that year , `` bluefield was not having a good year , '' said .
after the game ( he `` bluefield three runners stranding in ... the ninth , lost 9-8 , , '' noted ) , trouble began .
the players said , more taunting in the parking lot , led to a fight .
the fan he was punched and kicked by one player and that the other his jaw broke with a baseball bat said .
the judge the fan 's suit against the team , dismissed however , the orioles innocent of negligent hiring , and not responsible for a fight that was outside the players ' employment ruling .
proposals arise for coping with the shortage of nurses .
an association of academic health centers report from duties that special skills do n't require nurses freeing urge .
it better retirement and day-care benefits , and pay basing on education , experience and nurses ' demanding work schedules also recommend .
but it an american medical association proposal for a `` registered care technologist , '' creating oppose as `` potentially divisive '' ; it the job an unwanted new doctor 's `` bedside '' extension would entail say .
mra staffing systems nurses sign up for paid travel , annual income up to $ 50,000 and free or subsidized housing promising .
consultant hay group employees treating with respect is crucial for managers , say after surveys of a million workers .
it be in their top five `` work values . ''
fully 80 % of employees who their bosses them treat with respect , say but only a third of those who respected do n't feel they be satisfied with they where work say .
the digs sprucing up : for four months about 200 employees of the maryland department of economic and employment development walls , painted floors , polished and carpeted plants , bought windows and blinds , cleaned and pictures hung at the agency 's baltimore office .
the 3,000 hours of work $ 55,000 will save the state .
a bureau of national affairs survey of 250 companies with pacts expiring next year wage boosts curbing high priority will get again in 1990 collective bargaining , indicate .
despite labor-shortage warnings , 80 % aim for first-year wage increases of under 4 % ; and 77 % they workers , to replace 'd try if struck , or it would consider say .
the national association of temporary services temporary workers good educations , have say ; its survey of 2,508 such employees 82 % with more than a high-school education , and 31 % with college degrees show .
about 12 % have retired from a full-time job , while 54 % full time to stay on was asked .
home-sale losses rise , but they be often covered by employers .
but they search for ways the damage to limit .
about 72 % reimburse for all or some losses .
the council since 1984 , more companies sales-loss aid , give as many real-estate values depreciated , say .
rjr nabisco up to $ 30,000 of losses , including improvements pay .
goodrich loss coverage , wo n't ensure but a `` catastrophic loss '' will prevent ; it the full purchase price values when fell from concern over dangers posed by a disposal site have given some employees .
federal express , dow chemical , ford and national city corp. the home will buy or the worker sell to an outside firm , let but a loss usually wo n't cover .
since 1984 , firms prepurchase house appraisals , offering overpaying , to deter rose to 40 % of those the council polled , from 28 % .
the checkoff : the national academy of engineering a $ 350,000 achievement award give two inventors of the semiconductor microchip ... .
now , that be reactionary : letter carriers union president vincent sombrotto philadelphia postmaster charles james accuse of `` 12th century ... oppressive management tactics .
yesterday was , in the words of new york stock exchange chairman john j. phelan jr. , just your `` reasonably normal , 400 million-share , up 88-points day . ''
it when was over all and stocks a huge recovery , had staged big board officials was self-congratulatory about the day how well had gone .
they the exchange 's trading procedures , personnel , equipment and links with other exchanges could n't have performed better said .
mr. phelan `` we no operating problems at all , had '' said after the market closed .
`` all the things we that the process , to slow down people to let that the market was in an extreme position , know set up worked extremely well '' .
officials prices for the 416.3 million shares that hands changed during the session was carried on the exchange 's trading tape with barely a delay , said .
while blockbuster proportions reaching yesterday , the volume was still well within the 600 million-share capacity the exchange that it can handle daily since its computers beefing up after the october 1987 crash have said .
the so-called circuit breakers free falls in stock and futures prices to quell devised by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange was n't triggered yesterday because the markets was higher for most of the day .
despite traders ' complaints , mr. phelan the links with the chicago futures market as planned a cooling-off period to provide worked in friday 's rout said .
of greater help , the big board chairman said , the `` natural circuit breaker '' of the weekend , that a breathing period `` that rationality brought back to the market provided was .
chicken chains ruffled by loss of customers
fast-food chicken chains , faced with a worsening business slump , some new marketing strategies to hatch is struggling .
the crest report , which consumer purchases , track customer traffic at chicken restaurants 10 % fell in the second quarter , while the overall fast-food customer count was down 2 % say .
a spokesman for the report , a publication of npd group , a market research firm in port washington , n.y chicken business is off largely because of more competition from grocery-store convenience food , home-delivered pizza and other takeout fare , say .
the loss of more customers is the latest in a string of problems .
church 's fried chicken inc. and popeye 's famous fried chicken inc. , which have merged , is still troubled by overlapping restaurant locations .
chicken chains more pressure from mcdonald 's corp. , which its mcchicken sandwich introduced this year and the sale of individual pieces of chicken recently tested also is feeling .
new management at kentucky fried chicken , a unit of pepsico inc. , have fought back with new medium and large chicken sandwiches for the lunch crowd .
and the chain products that are n't fried , such as `` char-grilled '' chicken , is testing health-conscious consumers to win to try .
kentucky fried chicken home-delivery of chicken , which could be a hit with stay-at-home diners also is testing .
but some fast-food industry analysts problems with chicken warm and fresh keeping must be solved first say .
a kentucky fried chicken spokesman , the notion that the delivery service problems in some markets testing where have been discontinued experienced however , disputed .
he the test is continuing in chicago , columbus , ohio , and a few other cities say .
the advertising industry is buzzing with rumors that kentucky fried chicken young & rubicam will drop and a new ad agency seek .
but the company to comment decline .
emanuel goldman , a painewebber inc. analyst , kentucky fried chicken an 11 % drop in 1989 net income will post predict .
`` they 've been laggard , '' he say , `` but '' they more aggressive to become 'll have .
reluctant advertisers soft-sell spots try
pittsburgh consultant david bear to clients who exposure want yet pushy ads shun a soft approach is selling .
his ploy : 60-second radio spots that helpful hints offer .
the only plug for the sponsor is a brief mention at the end of the spot .
the messages the business traveler , a daily dose of travel tips developed by mr. bear and sponsored by travel agencies in several major cities resemble .
new un-advertisers burt hill kosar rittlemann associates , a butler , pa. , architectural firm include .
its radio series such spots as `` floodlights : evening wear for urban structures '' and `` a place to park building '' feature .
john kosar , the firm 's president , say `` a harder sell , would detract from the profession '' .
hospitals the messages to use fundraisers , to promote have signed up and equitable gas co. the format is considering energy tips to offer to consumers .
john fitzgerald , chairman of ketchum advertising usa , which similar radio spots created for pittsburgh national bank `` a risk of lost messages , there be always '' say .
`` it be a question of you how much credibility gain for the possible loss of recognition . ''
retailer pitfalls see in environmental push
here a retailer that tough 's getting in the push for environmentally safe packaging and products be .
big bear supermarkets inc. , a grocery chain based in san diego , shelf cards to display and pamphlets distribute products safe for the environment deemed recommending plan .
the choices will be based on research by the san diego environmental health coalition and products like murphy 's oil soap and other noncorrosive cleaners will include .
but the chain the pitfalls of such endorsements is quickly realizing .
for example , it nonchlorinated dishwasher detergent recommend and sunlight put on its environmentally safe list .
that procter & gamble co. , maker of cascade dishwasher detergent do n't thrill .
a company spokesman the validity of the list , questioned that chlorine is present in all major dishwasher detergents noting .
in fact , lever bros. that its sunlight brand chlorine bleach , do contain though it even is n't listed on the label for the powder version confirm .
thomas g. dahlen , big bear 's executive vice president , the chain its product list is still reviewing such problems to avoid said .
he `` our intent the best alternative , to promote is '' say .
`` and it be important that we be accurate . ''
but in the end , customers ' wishes what will prevail is .
big bear do n't care for disposable diapers , which are n't biodegradable .
yet parents them demand .
mr. dahlen , `` we items we might not philosophically agree with to sell 'll still be forced '' say .
neatness do count -- at least in the grocery store .
a study by safeway 's scanner marketing research soap sales 5 % climbed bars when was neatly stacked on shelves instead of dumped in a wire basket show ... .
which celebrity endorsers is most believable ?
for the third year in a row , consumers bill cosby first and james garner second in persuasiveness as spokesmen in tv commercials , voted according to video storyboard tests , new york .
michael j. fox bruce willis replaced in third place ; cher fourth placed for the second time .
bush administration officials health and human services secretary louis sullivan antonia novello to be the next surgeon general , have chosen said .
if she is nominated by president bush and confirmed by the senate , dr. novello c. everett koop , who liberals and conservatives alike rattled with his outspoken views on a range of health issues would succeed .
dr. novello , an expert on pediatric kidney diseases , is deputy director of the national institute of child health and human development .
she have also served on several task forces on acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
dr. novello 's office she would n't talk with reporters , said and it any information about her to release refused .
the newsletter medicine & health , which her selection by dr. sullivan , first disclosed said she is 44 years old and she studied at the university of puerto rico school of medicine .
the continuing series of hud scandals is a sadly predictable result of pork-barrel politics .
lobbies such as the national association of home builders ( nahb ) capitol hill to pressure for more special-interest spending nevertheless , continue .
kent colton , nahb executive vice president , that the u.s. a multifaceted housing crisis -- reduced affordability of homes for first-time buyers , increased homelessness , and lower apartment construction rates -- that will be `` very difficult '' to solve `` without expanded federal resources '' face argue .
nothing unusual about business groups pushing for more government spending there be .
but the nahb out of an organization that its name a roosevelt administration proposal to take over all defense housing production fighting made was created in 1943 .
mr. colton `` the hud budget have dropped by more than 70 % since 1980 , '' argue .
`` we more than our fair share have taken .
i a problem would n't have if other programs a similar hit had taken '' .
but nahb support for subsidies is not related to the current housing crunch ; over the years the nahb a host of public programs have backed .
it once pushed for a national housing production goal set by the federal government and anti-recession housing measures have regularly advanced .
one hud official , explain the nahb susceptible to internal pressure from members that specialize in subsidized production moreover , remain .
the association an extensive and expensive wish-list , which spending would substantially boost above the current level of more than $ 15 billion annually is pushing .
it the ceiling on federal housing administration mortgage guarantees to peg to 95 % of the median price in a particular market , instead of it limiting to $ 101,250 ; fha down-payment requirements reduce ( or even eliminate ) and the availability of variable-rate mortgages increase ; the veterans affairs department loan guarantee program expand ; `` adequate '' funding for the farmers home administration ( fmha ) provide ; federal funding and tax incentives for the construction of low-income and rental housing , including $ 4 billion in block grants to states and localities increase ; and `` the mckinney act , a $ 656 million potpourri for the homeless fully fund '' would like .
direct federal subsidies for housing construction intolerably expensive have proved in the past , and inevitably are twisted to the benefit of well-connected developers and lobbyists , as demonstrated by the ongoing hud scandal , or congressmen .
through the fha , for instance , indirect subsidies , is little better .
though mr. colton fha lending expanding would result in `` no cost to the government , '' say the mere diversion of funds from other parts of the economy and from other forms of housing ( such as low-income ) to the single-family home market would result in a major expense .
more important , housing programs run by hud , the va , and fmha is awash in red ink .
the fha alone $ 4.2 billion lost in fiscal 1988 ; the government 's equity in the agency , essentially its reserve fund , fell to minus $ 2.9 billion .
the federal government $ 2.28 billion to pump in into the va housing program since 1984 the fund afloat to keep have had and the va an additional $ 120 million requested for the fiscal year just ended .
the federal government more than $ 900 billion of mortgages all told , already guarantee .
in its nicely produced publication `` our children where will live ? '' the nahb that `` of course , the full measure of housing affordability can not be provided by the federal government '' do acknowledge .
it point to the pernicious impact of local government regulation , particularly zoning and building fees , which the price of housing push out of the reach of low- and middle-income people .
but while the nahb actions states and localities that regulatory barriers , to reduce should take have suggested the association no activist legislative program -- comparable to , say , its detailed request for more federal subsidies -- counterproductive controls to eliminate have proposed .
the association , a majority of whose 156,000 members fewer than 25 units a year , build is like many other business lobbies .
sheila macdonald of the national taxpayers union `` it tread in two worlds explain : .
the builders the subsidies , like but at the same time they to be fiscal conservatives in terms of major issues , such as the balanced-budget amendment tend '' .
the organization 's desire for pork its commitment to overall fiscal responsibility to override unfortunately , tend .
ms. macdonald the nahb when lobbied for the $ 19 billion omnibus housing bill , `` the organization two years ago basically dropped out of the taxpayers ' coalition , '' say .
as mr. colton of the nahb acknowledge : `` government the problem to solve is not going ... .
the real key the economy working and interest rates down to have is '' .
more money for hud the deficit will increase and the economy destabilize ; more money to municipalities that their local housing markets is wrecking them will further insulate from the destructive effects of their policies .
this is what the home builders want ?
mr. bandow is a cato institute fellow .
( related story : `` and bills wishes true come to make '' -- wsj oct. 17 , 1989 see .
in an attempt new momentum to give to european community plans for a single currency , ec government leaders is likely a date for formal talks on the ec 's founding treaty of rome amending starting to set to agree .
according to diplomatic sources in brussels , most ec leaders that talks should begin in the second half of 1990 , and a declaration on that will make during a summit meeting in strasbourg , france , on dec. 8 and 9 agree .
the only strong opposition the ec treaty to changing from british prime minister margaret thatcher , who is opposed a single ec currency to creating come .
but the process of the intergovernmental conference convening unanimity do n't require .
french president francois mitterrand a date for the conference to set fought during the ec summit in madrid last june , but the move was scuttled because of opposition by mrs. thatcher and west german chancellor helmut kohl .
diplomatic sources mr. kohl a date for the conference to set clear that it west germany is still committed to ec unity to make may now agree said .
the latest crewcut in the equities markets me remind of the joke t. boone pickens tell about the guy who was run over by the parade .
`` what went wrong '' when asked ? the unfortunate victim `` it was a combination of things '' replied , .
and so it was on gray friday .
the grand marshal of this parade to have been excess leverage would appear .
if that even is so , however , it be probably the case that no barriers the procession to stop before the end of the rout ( e ) should have been erected .
the ceremonies began friday afternoon word that the ual buy-out was collapsing when spread .
although the union-bidder a substitute offer , consisting of less cash , to patch together expect the failure cash to get from japanese and american banks a growing fear among arbitragers that the pageant of high-leverage takeover deals is ending confirmed .
lots of other entries the parade , made up of course -- notably a surprisingly large increase in producer prices , federal reserve tightness signalling ; and the bush administration 's ( temporary ? ) defeat in the capital-gains tax to lower trying .
as usual , few favorable reviews was heard for that ever-present marching band of program traders , although most serious studies they the music that others write only play suggest .
what the crowds along wall street , really spooked however , was the sudden concern that , whatever the reason , the pool of debt capital is drying up .
gray friday a panic mainly by the takeover arbitragers , rather than the small investor , reflect their highly margined investments in the `` deal '' stocks as is jeopardized by the unexpected drying up of the lubricant for deal financing .
deal stocks the market led down as they the heaviest losses absorbed .
ual , which the slide , triggered opened down about 20 % from thursday 's close monday at $ 224 , .
amr opened down nearly 20 % from thursday 's close monday at $ 80 , .
hilton 20 % lost on friday ; paramount almost 11 % lost .
a careful look that deal financing where have been secured , the target 's stock price was not affected on friday reveal .
the multibillion-dollar prospects , the bidder a consortium of banks where must line up and/or issue billions in high-yield debt , was the damage where was concentrated .
the market for so-called junk bonds the stage have been setting for friday 's dramatic march for several weeks .
the growing financial difficulties of recent high-leverage restructurings or takeovers , such as resorts international , integrated resources , and campeau 's retailing empire , a pall have cast over the entire market for high-yield securities .
investors have reacted by recent efforts junk bonds to float by ohio mattress ignoring and by ramada its planned junk-bond sale and restructuring to postpone indefinitely forcing .
as a result , high-yield mutual funds have declined across the board and the many firms $ 11 billion in junk bonds to sell before year-end planning anxious times is experiencing .
these is all market excesses ( the artificial boosts the tax code that give to debt over equity putting aside ) , and what we 've seen is the market them reining in .
of course , washington had n't been silent in the days leading up to the debacle , and its tendency to meddle in the leverage equation a troublesome prospect , remain but those preliminary steps us should n't distract from the basic market fundamentalism that was at work on friday .
if it is correct that concerns over corporate debt and lbos caused gray friday , to find what the implications for policy makers is ?
the stock market 's response to the collapse of the ual deal the anti-debt direction of regulators to confirm after all , might be taken .
is this a case private markets where is approving of washington 's bashing of wall street ?
to the extent that friday 's sell-off a sudden reappraisal of the excesses of leverage , reflected the message that wall street and the private markets is fully capable of the appropriate incentives and sanctions imposing on corporate behavior is .
the national economic interests the private interests of bankers and investors be the ultimate judges of the investment quality of various lbo deals and leveraged restructurings allowing is much better served .
the recent difficulties in the junk-bond markets and the scarcity of bank capital for recent deals the wisdom of the free markets operate letting underscore .
if takeover premiums excessive , become if lbo dealmakers too aggressive , become the private market these problems then will recognize more quickly and accurately than will policy makers , and the markets appropriate sanctions to impose will move with lightning speed .
yes , the broader exchanges got caught up in the spiral , but they the tiger rode up all year .
he not surprisingly , sometimes bite .
the arbitragers and takeover initiatiors got killed on gray friday , while the besieged managers of prospective targets cheered lustily .
if you identify with the besieged managers , you that speedy and effective relief from the excesses of the takeover market is more likely to come from the marketplace than from washington must concede .
if you side with the arbitragers and raiders , you more to fear from private investors than from regulators , clearly have although the delaware courts should never be underestimated .
the truth washington politics understand better than economics is , .
although the average citizen is probably not harmed too much from washington 's rhetorical war against wall street excessive financial leveraging , regarding actual legislation considerable harm would probably impose .
any such attempt `` good debt '' to distinguish from `` bad debt , '' or the line to draw at a particular industry , such as the airlines , is likely the spur the proper amount of leverage that provide both to equity markets and economic efficiency in general to blunt .
far better for policy makers to concentrate on the war against drugs , panama and the deficit , all of them parades that never to end seem .
mr. jarrell , former top economist at the securities and exchange commission , teach at the university of rochester 's simon business school .
tokyo share prices rebounded tuesday morning , with the nikkei index of 225 selected stocks 618.69 points rising to close the morning session at 35087.38 .
the index 647.33 points , or 1.8 % , slid on monday .
in the first 25 minutes of tuesday 's trading the nikkei index 664.83 points , soared to 35133.83 .
by 10 a.m. tokyo time , the index was up 435.11 points , to 34903.80 as investors new york 's overnight rally hailed .
monday 's slide in a relatively calm session that much direction did n't provide for other markets came .
shares also closed sharply lower across europe , particularly in frankfurt , although london and a few other markets some ground recovered after stocks to rebound in new york began .
other asian and pacific markets sharper losses than tokyo , had but the selling wave stopped short of another market crash precipitating .
all eyes was on tokyo at the opening because it was the first major market to trade since friday 's 190.58-point plunge on wall street .
but rather than the tone set for other markets , japan 's major institutional investors to remain on the sidelines chose .
despite the sudden reappearance of stock-market turbulence , managers of japanese investment funds they u.s. or european equities to unload was n't planning still , said .
a fund manager at taisho life insurance co `` we did n't trade much today , as our policy now to wait and see , is '' said .
`` we to wait and see until trading go around through europe and new york would like '' .
the institutions confident that japanese regulators orderly trading to ensure would step in if necessary , appeared and considerable speculation during the day that the finance ministry just that to do was working behind the scenes there was .
but in the absence of panicky trading , its presence was never overtly felt .
at the close , the nikkei average of 225 stocks stood down 647.33 points , or 1.8 % at 34468.69 , .
the broader tokyo stock price index 45.66 , or 1.7 % , sank to 2600.88 .
the day 's decline was generally in line with analysts ' weekend predictions .
declining issues advancers , swamped 941-105 .
but volume was thin at 526.2 million shares , compared with 574.7 million friday .
the market opened sharply lower , with the nikkei average down nearly 600 after 20 minutes .
a midmorning rebound it brought back a gain of about 200 to show at the end of the morning session , but the rally failed in the afternoon , and the market closed near the day 's low .
the smaller stocks in the tokyo market 's second section their biggest decline of the year also posted .
the tokyo stock exchange index for the second section 100.96 , or 2.7 % , fell to 3655.40 .
many investors , the market 's major indexes , to outperform trying have flocked to these small issues in recent weeks .
japanese investors and traders relief that the tokyo market did n't fall more sharply expressed .
but its performance some resemblance to events of two years ago , during the october 1987 global stock market crash did bear .
on oct. 16 , 1987 -- the friday before the black monday crash -- the new york market 4.6 % , dropped and tokyo followed on monday with a 2.4 % drop .
this time , wall street 's plunge of 6.9 % friday was followed by yesterday 's 1.8 % loss in tokyo .
tokyo 's biggest fall two years ago , came the day after new york 's 22.6 % black monday plunge , the nikkei average 14.9 % when fell .
yesterday market participants thus , was looking ahead nervously to wall street 's opening .
but in new york yesterday , the dow jones industrial average 88.12 surged to close at 2657.38 on heavy volume of 416,290,000 shares , although declining issues advancing ones still outnumbered on the broad market .
nobuto yasuda , a director at yamaichi investment trust & management co. , yesterday 's session `` a good scenario '' for japan called .
he `` we now is looking for the time buy orders , to place '' said .
`` for us institutional investors , the chance for buying have come '' .
also isao ushikubo , general manager of the investment research department at toyo trust & banking co. , was optimistic .
he friday 's plunge in the u.s. described as a `` fleeting '' event resulting in part from excessive merger and acquisition activity .
he `` unless a panic , there is this is the best time to buy , as was the case two years ago , '' said .
`` those shares which gains had posted on m&a speculation was dashed with cold water , but much impact as far as major stocks is concerned , there is n't '' .
other fund managers was similarly sanguine .
masato murakami , chief portfolio manager in the pension fund management department at yasuda trust & banking co `` we no plans our asset allocation in foreign equities , to adjust have '' said .
he friday 's wall street decline was `` well within the range of volatility '' that for yasuda trust plan it its overseas investment strategy when chart said .
among other asian and pacific markets , malaysia and singapore the biggest losses , had with the kuala lumpur composite index in malaysia 11.5 % falling and singapore 's straits times industrial index down 10 % .
major indexes more than 8 % in australia and new zealand and 6.5 % in hong kong declined .
bangkok , manila , seoul , taipei and jakarta escaped with slightly smaller losses .
brokers and fund managers the region 's markets was reacting to friday 's wall street plunge even though that decline was due to local factors such as failed corporate buy-outs and a deteriorating junk-bond market said .
william au yeung , an account executive for drexel burnham lambert ( hk ) ltd. in hong kong `` it be pure psychology , '' said .
`` markets in this region is n't so geared to leveraged buy-outs , and generally their economies is in good shape , but no doubt that asia america 's lead is still following there be '' .
several analysts malaysia and singapore the biggest losses had because they is relatively open to rapid cash flows said .
hong kong is the region 's next most open market , but many foreign investors have been staying away from it since it plunged in june amid political turmoil in china .
elizabeth hambrecht , a regional analyst with baring securities ( hong kong ) ltd `` singapore the hit took people to get out , when want they to go the liquidity where is , because tend '' said .
she that even after monday 's 10 % decline , the straits times index is up 24 % this year , pointed out so investors who bailed out generally did so profitably .
yesterday kuala lumpur 's composite index 27.5 % above its 1988 close similarly , ended .
in hong kong , the hang seng index 180.60 fell to finish at 2601.70 .
trading was heavy at about one billion shares , compared with 473.9 million friday .
but the session was orderly , in contrast to the market 's four-day closure after the 1987 crash .
richard chenevix-trench , a director at hong kong-based baring international fund managers ltd. , the market bottom probably have n't hit yet but is close said .
he `` if new york do n't collapse , i maybe another 5 % see on the downside , the risk of bad news out of china , not counting '' said .
in australia , sydney 's all ordinaries index closed down 8.1 % , at 1601.5 , its biggest drop since october 1987 .
but volume rose only to 162 million shares from 143 million friday .
nestor hinzack , an analyst at brokerage firm burdett , buckeridge & young ltd. , the market 's performance described as `` sheep-like '' as investors fled to bluechip australian stocks and entrepreneurial companies they perceived as any takeover premium built into the price having shunned .
london 's financial times-stock exchange 100-share index , the most closely watched market barometer , ended down 70.5 , or 3.2 % at its intraday high of 2163.4 , .
at its low , before wall street shortly opened , it was off more than 130 points .
the financial times 30-share index closed 79.3 points lower at 1738.7 .
volume more than doubled to 959.3 million shares from 457.7 million friday .
prices on the frankfurt stock exchange tumbled in heavy trading .
the decline in the german stock index of 203.56 points , or 12.8 % , to 1385.72 was the frankfurt market 's steepest fall ever .
retail investors holdings dumped on a massive scale , some blue-chip shares pushing down as much as 20 % .
analysts memories of two years ago , many small investors when held on to their shares after the october crash but the west german market to decline steeply for the next three months continued cited .
them directly comparable , to make each index is based on the close of 1969 100 equaling .
the percentage change is since year-end .
frank lloyd wright that if you the world tipped on its side , everything loose would end up in california to have said once is reported .
we that mr. wright california 's vitality , underestimated have always thought but the state 's la-la factions the forces that it such a significant place made to overwhelm maybe is starting .
if passed by the voters , the recently announced initiative major pesticides , would phase out carbon dioxide emissions reduce by 40 % , new offshore drilling , ban chemicals the ozone layer , to deplete thought ban and a new state environmental officer armed with a $ 40 million budget any firm or agency he is being too dirty think to sue create .
the initiative is based largely on the wish-lists of the green lobby : the sierra club , the league of conservation voters , the natural resources defense council , the national toxics campaign and the citizens for a better environment .
the environmental defense fund nothing to do with this one interestingly , is having .
not only californians but all americans would pay if this thing passed .
the initiative the sale of any crops in california that the initiative 's standards do n't meet bar .
kansas wheat farmers and florida fruit growers to adjust or the california market give up would have .
in other words , california control of the nation 's farm policy to take is presuming .
as usual the green lobby 's proposal is disconnected from scientific reality .
the proposed initiative a reduction of carbon dioxide of 40 % would mandate .
if one even buys into the whole greenhouse theory , it is inconceivable that reductions in a single state any impact on what is billed as a global problem could have .
under these circumstances the first place to look is at the ways in which the sponsors themselves will benefit .
here the key is the ambition of state attorney general john van de kamp .
he be running for governor .
mr. van de kamp is the one who the plans collected from the various radical environmental groups and them cobbled into a single unwieldy initiative to be placed on the ballot for election on nov. 6 , 1990 .
that be also the day of the gubernatorial election .
the initiative all the hot issues that the wealthy hollywood weepers who money donate set off to include to have been crafted seem .
and it mr. van de kamp to get around campaign spending limits allow .
he the legal maximum for his campaign can spend ; all the spending for the van de kamp initiative ( on which no limits there is ) is gravy .
this initiative the big green , is being labeled but it the big greenback maybe should be called .
( the republican candidate , sen. pete wilson , the initiative fundraising game is playing too , his own crime initiative sponsoring ) .
while it is possible that the big green initiative unconstitutional , will be ruled it is of course conceivable that in modern california it could slide through .
this is the state that the prop. 65 anti-toxic initiative recently passed .
if this new proposal law , ever do become the green lobby will benefit directly .
the initiative a free floating state environmental officer companies or government agencies that things he do n't like do to sue create .
that the nrdc and such groups as much money to spend on litigation no longer would have mean ; taxpayers the cost would bear .
mr. van de kamp and his allies that the environment is such a mom and apple-pie issue among certain segments of california 's population now that almost any collection of anti-scientific , anti-pocketbook nonsense can pass under its rubric may be hoping .
of course the state 's liberals is not yet a nation unto themselves .
for example , george bush , that he to be the president who control of interstate commerce lost to an attorney general from california do n't want may decide .
and some other segments of california 's political and media culture that the initiative significant costs would impose on the state 's less affluent citizens in the form of higher food prices and lost jobs to point out may yet start .
this grandiose initiative california itself define for the future either as a state still tethered to economic and scientific reality , or as one being led its la-la activists it to take to wherever want will help .
a death watch first , there was .
spurred by waves of large-scale buying in blue-chip stocks , the dow jones industrial average rallied yesterday and about a half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , erased 88.12 gaining to 2657.38 .
it was the fourth-biggest advance for the average of 30 blue chips , on frenetic new york stock exchange volume of 416,290,000 shares -- the highest since the days after the 1987 crash .
while the advance investors who a 1987-style crash would occur yesterday , feared cheered it was strictly a big-stock rally fed by huge buying by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
a troubling sign : declining stocks on the big board advancers , outnumbered 975 to 749 , and the over-the-counter market that many smaller stocks include aftershocks of friday 's late big board plunge suffered .
the nasdaq otc index closed down 6.31 to 460.98 .
in a divergence in two of the market 's most important indicators , the dow industrials ' sister average , the 20-stock dow jones transportation average , 102.06 meanwhile , tumbled to 1304.23 -- its second-worst decline next to the 164.78-point fall during the 1987 crash .
transports plunged on takeover disappointments in two airline stocks , ual and amr , which each more than 20 % fell they when reopened for trading yesterday after being suspended friday afternoon .
ual , the takeover stock at the center of friday 's 190.58-point market plunge , 56 7/8 fell to 222 7/8 on nearly 2.3 million shares .
arthur cashin jr. , a veteran painewebber inc. trader at the big board overall , `` this is a pleasant rally but it be very selective , '' said .
`` a little everyone was concerned about the general narrowness of the rally and failure of the otc market to get into plus territory .
it be just a strange feeling .
i anyone the place dixie whistling left do n't think '' .
the rally credence , gave at least for now , to the pre-trading declaration of big board chairman john j. phelan jr. that friday 's market debacle was `` an abnormal condition , and not a disaster '' .
but to traders , it looked like disaster on the 9:30 a.m. opening bell .
the dow jones industrial average opened down 1.64 shortly after 9:30 .
at 9:45 , procter & gamble -- one of the most important dow bellwethers of late -- opened down 2 3/4 to 117 .
the dow dropped to a quick 27-point loss , and to many traders it looked as if stocks was headed for yet another big tumble .
more stocks opened over the ensuing half hour , as the 49 big board specialist firms in charge of the market orderly keeping buy orders from major brokerage firms the selling flood to match to find groped .
matters worse , to make computerized sell programs stocks hammering into steeper losses then , kicked in , .
heavy stock-index arbitrage , there was as traders big baskets of stock sold and stock-index futures bought to profit from the price discrepancies between the two markets .
this was a hangover from friday , standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures when had closed at a sharp discount to stocks .
the onslaught of the program selling any hopes that some of the big program trading firms would hold off until the market stabilized dashed .
they did n't .
the dow its slide , accelerated 63.52 losing in the first 40 minutes of trading .
with program traders seemingly in charge , buyers backed away from the market and stocks fall watched .
at 10:15 the dow to rebound , then suddenly started and it when shot upward it did so even faster than the early-morning fall .
and this time , it was n't just the program traders who were responsible .
all the selling stocks had pushed to such cheap values that big investment banks and major money management firms stocks buying heavily started .
the program traders was in there , too , of course .
but according to one trader , `` the programmers as dominant on the upside as on the downside did n't look because a lot of bargain-hunting by institutions there was also -lcb- -rcb- '' .
roland m. machold , director of the new jersey division of investment , which $ 29 billion in investments , oversee `` the first thing we did our orders to double yesterday morning was '' said .
`` with the market down like this , we another $ 50 million 'll probably take and it put in the market '' .
trading in walt disney co. particularly traders ' eyes caught .
according to big board officials , disney one of the biggest sell-order imbalances had on friday ; it was one of the seven stocks that trading could n't finish that day .
the stock opened late down 8 1/2 at 114 1/2 , .
traders but it then shot upward 7 1/2 as goldman , sachs & co. stepped in and bought , said .
disney specialist robert fagenson `` i would be surprised if goldman 4 % of the opening volume represented '' however , said : .
around wall street , trading desks that they the market could at least play yesterday , in contrast to friday 's gridlock was relieved .
at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette inc. , head equity trader dudley eppel `` i the opening was constructive think said : .
it was orderly .
we some orders put together .
not like friday they the market where just took apart -lcb- -rcb- . ''
the market still , had n't yet crossed into positive territory , and traders was glum .
but in another dramatic burst , the dow tacked on 42 points in five minutes , and at 10:25 the index a gain of 5.74 showed .
on the big board floor and on trading desks , traders their approval yelped .
griffith peck , a trader in shearson lehman hutton inc. 's otc department `` i you , this market healthy act tell '' grinned : .
around him , scores of traders a burst of energy to get seemed ; their boss bottles of perrier water broke out them to cool off .
among big board specialists , the cry `` your offers pull '' was -- that specialists higher prices to get for their shares soon expected meaning .
one big board specialist `` it was bedlam on the upside , '' said .
but not everybody money was making .
the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options was halted friday .
many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract bullish positions had friday , and the shutdown when came they was frozen with huge losses .
over the weekend , clearing firms the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning told .
one chicago-based options trader `` they was absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' said .
some traders that the closely watched major market index , whose 20 stocks the dow industrials , mimic yesterday 's big rally did n't lead said .
james gallagher , a partner at specialist fowler & rosenau , `` `` the difference between today and two years ago -- `` terrible tuesday , '' oct. 20 , 1987 -- '' that we a savior to go into the major market index , $ 2 million spend and the program rally started get then needed is said , .
this time -lcb- -rcb- institutions saw the programs coming and backed away and backed away .
when the market was at a technical level to buy , they then came in with a vengeance '' .
however , according to one analyst , just before the turnaround the timing of major market index futures buying was similar to that of terrible tuesday .
donald selkin , head of stock-index futures research at prudential-bache securities inc `` futures the stock market was pulling higher , '' said .
although the big board 's specialist firms struggled through another highly volatile trading session , yesterday their performance was better than during friday 's late-afternoon chaos , according to traders and brokers who work with them .
specialists was criticized for their inability orderly markets to maintain during the friday plunge .
but yesterday , even with halts in such major blue-chip stocks as merck , `` we the halts expected ( ) and it was n't too bad , '' donaldson 's mr. eppel , who had been critical of the specialists ' performance on friday said .
according to a big board official , while many stocks opened late , subsequent trading halts there was in only three issues -- amr , merck and valero energy .
merck is one of the most important stocks in the major market index .
no sector of the market have been spared during the past two days ' gyrations .
from the dow industrials ' high on oct. 9 through friday 's plunge , relatively good performances yet have been turned in by real-estate , utilities , precious metals and life insurance stocks .
and yesterday , the top performing industry group was oil field equipment issues .
for example , halliburton 3 1/4 jumped to 38 , schlumberger 2 1/2 rose to 43 1/4 and baker hughes 1 1/8 rose to 22 .
because of the ual and amr tumbles , airlines was the weakest sector of the market yesterday .
philip morris was the big board 's most active issue , 2 1/4 rising to 43 1/4 on nearly eight million shares .
among other major issues , coca-cola co. closed up 2 at 66 3/4 on 1.7 million shares and american telephone & telegraph 3 1/4 rose to 43 on nearly 7.8 million shares .
shares of international business machines , which earnings reported yesterday , finished up 1 , at 103 , after slipping below 100 during friday 's session for the first time in five years .
shares of three brokerage firms rose after they earnings reported .
merrill lynch 1 3/4 added to 28 , painewebber 3/4 rose to 18 1/2 and bear stearns 3/8 rose to 14 1/4 .
federal national mortgage association , a recently hot stock , 4 climbed to 124 on nearly 1.6 million shares .
at a news conference after the close of trading yesterday , the big board 's mr. phelan and other exchange officials the performance of their computers and personnel praised .
mr. phelan that program trading strategies was n't responsible for friday 's decline triggering despite a jump in the use of the computer-driven strategies in recent months said .
he some 24 million of the more than 100 million shares traded in the final 90 minutes of friday 's session , the plunge in stock prices when was concentrated , were program-related , said .
program trades 10 % of the exchange 's volume make up on an average day , but mr. phelan despite the increase friday , it was `` certainly not something you the market decline , precipitated would say '' said .
mr. phelan relief that the market rebounded yesterday expressed .
he `` every time we this kind of reaction , get it everybody nervous , including me , to make obviously , be going '' said .
he that exchange officials conversations with wall street firms had throughout the weekend and that `` all the participants behaved very , very responsibly today '' said .
peter dapuzzo , shearson 's head of retail equity trading , institutional investors in the otc market , who were heavy buyers of the nasdaq 's biggest technology issues yesterday amid a flood of selling by other investors meanwhile , praised .
mr. dapuzzo `` the institutions ca n't be criticized for their behavior , '' said in an interview .
`` it was the opposite of what happened on oct. 19 .
they their judgment used .
they which the market orderly kept instead , bought on weakness and sold into the strength , .
they maybe learned from experience '' .
mr. phelan the performance of specialists during friday 's plunge was admirable , because out of 1,640 big board common stocks traded during the day only seven were closed and were n't reopened before the close said .
mr. phelan `` they an excellent job , did '' said of the specialists .
on friday wall street traders had complained about the trading suspensions .
james a. white and sonja steptoe contributed to this article .
west germany 's green party its ideological soulmates jeremy rifkin and the christic institute joined in the legal battle the atlantis shuttle and its plutonium-powered galileo probe to jupiter to ground .
the anti-defense greens a washington federal appeals court today 's scheduled liftoff to block long enough for them the world court `` a permanent cancellation of the $ 1.5 billion flight to order '' to ask wanted .
yesterday a three-judge appeals panel to comply , refused though liberal judge pat wald that this was a `` frivolous '' case to deny went out of her way .
of course it was .
nasa should now sue for fines against all three politico-plaintiffs , foreign and domestic , for this mischievous case bringing .
a house-senate conference a permanent smoking ban on all domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on all flights of six hours or less to alaska and hawaii approved .
the restrictions all but a small percentage of domestic air traffic , would cover and a major expansion of the current smoking ban on flights of two hours or less represent .
the exemption allowed on longer flights to alaska and hawaii to be largely a face-saving concession for the traditionally powerful tobacco industry , which itself increasingly isolated have found in the face of public pressure in recent years appear .
by a 6-4 margin , house negotiators a senate provision all domestic flights covering initially rejected last night .
but the six-hour compromise was soon agreed to in subsequent discussions .
as a practical matter , flights from the west coast to hawaii would be covered as they is under the time limit , but the language longer routes beginning , for example , in chicago or on the east coast would exempt .
within the senate , the ban aggressive support from sen. frank lautenberg ( d. , n.j. ) , who his position as a senate appropriations subcommittee chairman have used votes for the initiative to garner have had .
the measure is attached to the more than $ 26 billion fiscal 1990 transportation bill within mr. lautenberg 's jurisdiction , and the final compromise is laced with more than $ 205 million in road projects earmarked by members as well as funds sought by major airports , including denver .
from the outset , the tobacco industry has been uncertain as what strategy to to follow .
but the industry support retain in the house leadership through the influence of grower states , such as north carolina .
majority whip william gray a political debt owe to southern agriculture lawmakers for his rise in the house , and the philadelphia democrat his position in the conference used the exemption to salvage from a total ban .
although the smoking provision the most public interest , have attracted the underlying bill was the subject of behind-the-scenes lobbying because of its impact on air transportation and the more mundane , but politically important , projects of members .
in a stark lesson in the power of the appropriations committees , the house a handful of projects by lawmakers in florida , illinois and pennsylvania who had voted against the panel leadership on the house floor backed deliberately killed .
rep. william lehman ( d. , fla. ) , head of the house conferees `` anybody can vote as they want , '' said .
within the federal aviation administration , the final bill spending for facilities and equipment to increase by more than 20 % from last year , promise and total operations would rise to $ 3.84 billion -- a 12 % boost .
the facilities account $ 40 million for denver 's ambitious new airport , include and the competition for these funds shifting alliances between urban lawmakers established airports in philadelphia and michigan and the major carriers to denver , united and continental representing created .
leery of the costs -- and , critics say , competition -- the airlines leverage over the city of denver to gain have sought .
texas air corp. , which continental , own and the air transport association was prominent in the lobbying .
the industry conditions that funds for the project would have delayed until denver and the airlines had agreed to leases for 50 % of the gates to impose sought .
but this was rejected in favor of much looser language the transportation department directing the costs of the first phase , about $ 2 billion to cost expected to review .
though smaller in total dollars , the conference an estimated $ 30.6 million in controversial subsidies to carriers rural or isolated airports serving to preserve agreed .
the sum is more than double what the house had approved for the program , but the list of qualified airports would be cut by 22 under new distance requirements and limits on the level of subsidy .
congress six airports previously cut this year .
the impact of the changes many of the most excessive cases the government more than $ 200 where have been paying for each passenger in subsidies to eliminate is .
among rail and highway accounts , the agreement $ 615 million for amtrak , including $ 85 million for capital improvements provide .
and federal-formula grants for mass transit would be effectively frozen at $ 1.625 billion , or $ 20 million more than last fiscal year .
several blockbuster movie hits including `` batman , '' enjoying los angeles-based guber-peters entertainment co. earnings for the first quarter ended aug. 31 of $ 5.8 million , or 50 cents a share , compared with a year-earlier loss reported .
sony corp. , which the movie-production company , to acquire has offered its top executives , peter guber and jon peters , to free from an exclusive agreement with time warner inc. 's warner communications inc. is seeking so they columbia pictures entertainment inc can run .
sony columbia to acquire for $ 3.4 billion , or $ 27 a share two weeks ago agreed .
warner sony and guber-peters sued late last week ; sony and guber-peters warner charging with to interfere in sony 's acquisition of the two companies attempting have countersued , .
guber-peters 's net income in the latest quarter compared with a net loss of $ 6.9 million , or 62 cents a share , in the year-earlier period .
the company revenue 138 % , rose to $ 10.9 million from $ 4.6 million , the success of its movies `` gorillas in the mist '' and `` rainman , '' as well as the box-office smash `` batman reflecting said .
a group including jon m. huntsman of salt lake city , it its stake in aristech chemical corp. boosted to 8.36 % of the the common shares outstanding said .
as previously reported , huntsman holdings corp. , owned by jon m. huntsman and other members of his family , that banstar corp. , an affiliate of huntsman holdings , aristech acquire in a friendly transaction for $ 25-a-share in cash , or $ 817.5 million proposed .
in a filing with the securities and exchange commission , the huntsman group it 2,720,675 aristech common shares , including 306,000 shares bought from aug. 21 to oct. 13 for $ 20 to $ 20.875 per share control said .
officials at aristech , based in pittsburgh , comment declined .
congress has been critical of the bush administration for enough aid not sending to poland , so it ready its own version of a care package to send is getting .
last month , the senate a delegation of congressional staffers to send to poland its legislature , the sejm , to assist in democratic procedures voted .
senator pete domenici this effort `` the first gift of democracy . '' call
the poles it to view as a trojan horse might do better .
it is the vast shadow government of 15,000 congressional staffers that such legislative atrocities as the 1,376 page , 13-pound reconciliation bill that to be the budget of the united states claimed create helps .
maybe after the staffers their work explain to the poles , they 'd be willing to come back and the same do for the american people .
waterford wedgwood plc , a financially troubled irish maker of fine crystal and wedgwood china , that its pretax loss for the first six months widened to 10.6 million irish punts ( $ 14.9 million ) from 5.8 million irish punts a year earlier reported .
the results for the half was worse than market expectations , which an interim loss of around 10 million irish punts suggested .
in a sharply weaker london market yesterday , waterford shares was down 15 pence at 50 pence ( 79 cents ) .
the company a loss after taxation and minority interests of 14 million irish punts , compared with a loss of 9.3 million irish punts for the year-earlier period reported .
any extraordinary items there was n't .
sales for the total group 27 % rose to 168.1 million irish punts compared with 132.6 million irish punts a year ago .
waterford have decided against an interim dividend paying .
waterford the appointment of a new management team and the signing of a comprehensive labor agreement the company 's long-term prospects to enhance is expected said .
the sudden `` flight to quality '' that friday 's explosive bond-market rally triggered was reversed yesterday in a `` flight from quality '' rout .
the setback , in which treasury bond prices plummeted , a rebound in the stock market and profit-taking reflected .
`` it was a pretty wild day .
our markets was closely tied to the stock market , '' joel kazis , manager of trading at smith barney , harris upham & co said .
`` friday 's flight to quality was no longer needed once the stock market its legs , found '' he said .
some fixed-income investors a further drop in stock prices had expected after the nearly 200-point drop in the dow jones industrial average on friday .
but stocks to climb instead , when began prices of treasury bonds declined .
dispatches by several investment firms clients their stock holdings to boost and the size of their cash or bond portfolios reduce advising contributing was to the selling pressure .
among the firms merrill lynch & co. and dean witter reynolds inc was .
the bond market evidence that the federal reserve credit conditions eased slightly by the federal funds rate as low as 8 1/2 % to drift allowing to ignore seemed .
the closely watched rate on federal funds , or overnight loans between banks , slid down from its perceived target level of about 9 % to about 8 3/4 % last week , .
the rate an early signal of changes in fed policy is considered .
traders yesterday 's modest easing much enthusiasm did n't stir because it had been widely expected said .
in fact , some economists that the latest easing started last week contend .
others that some investors was disappointed because they a more aggressive easing had expected note .
the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond , about 1 3/4 points lower , or down about $ 17.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount ended .
the reversal was even more evident among shorter-term treasury securities .
after treasury bill rates as much as 0.70 percentage point plummeted on friday , they three-fourths of that amount gave back yesterday .
for example , the bond-equivalent yield on three-month treasury bills , was quoted late yesterday at 7.72 % , compared with 7.16 % friday .
investment-grade corporate bonds , mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds also fell .
but prices of junk bonds , which was battered friday in near standstill trading , small gains to post after a volatile trading session rebounded .
junk bonds as much as four points lower opened but a modest comeback staged as stock prices firmed .
some traders the high-yield market was helped by active institutional buying said .
in particular , they said , firms such as first boston corp. and drexel burnham lambert inc. a market in junk issues making early in the session prices severely depressed levels when hit began .
`` i the willingness of securities companies markets to make for high-yield issues the sentiment for junk bonds , improved think '' john lonski , an economist at moody 's investors service inc said .
u.s. treasury bonds was higher in overnight trading in japan , which opened at about 7:30 p.m. edt .
for example the benchmark 30-year bond , one point rose in early japanese trading in reaction to a quick 600-point drop in the tokyo stock market .
but as japanese stocks rebounded , treasurys retreated and ended just modestly higher .
many u.s. trading operations , a watchful eye to keep on japanese trading as an indication of u.s. trading where would begin , wanting was fully staffed during the tokyo trading session .
`` most of the action was during the night session , '' michael moore , trading manager at continental bank said .
jay goldinger , who often trades overnight for capital insight inc. , beverly hills , calif. , trading in tokyo was `` very active '' but highly volatile said .
`` we went down 3/4 point in 10 minutes right before lunch , after lunch we then went up 3/4 point in 12 minutes , '' he said .
in tokyo , trading is halted during lunchtime .
tokyo 's market to be a bad bellwether for u.s. trading turned out .
the market when opened here , bonds prices fell as the stock market strength regained .
the bond market 's focus on stock activity was so strong yesterday that it today 's slate of economic data , which the government 's report on august u.s. merchandise trade and september industrial production include overshadowed .
industrial production 0.2 % , to have declined is expected according to a consensus of economists surveyed by dow jones capital markets report .
the august trade deficit to have widened to $ 9.1 billion from $ 7.58 billion in july is expected .
one new york trader , said a widening of that magnitude , is `` not a favorable number ... .
it damage to us could do '' .
agency supply to weigh heavily on the market today the federal home loan bank a $ 2.3 billion offering of one-year , three-year , five-year and 10-year maturities when price meanwhile , is expected .
tomorrow , the resolution funding corp. details of its first bond issue , which between $ 4 billion and $ 6 billion to total and a maturity greater than 20 years carry is expected will provide .
resolution funding is a division of resolution trust corp. , the new federal agency the nation 's troubled thrifts to bail out created .
and this week the tennessee valley authority a $ 3 billion offering , its first public debt borrowing in 15 years to price plan .
the new york trader `` there 's lots of supply , '' said .
`` we a couple or three tough weeks coming have '' .
prices of treasury bonds tumbled in moderate to active trading .
the benchmark 30-year treasury bond was quoted late at a price of 101 19/32 , compared with a closing price of 103 12/32 friday .
the yield on the benchmark issue rose to 7.97 % from 7.82 % .
the latest 10-year notes was quoted late at 100 3/32 for a yield of 7.97 % , compared with 101 9/32 7.84 % to yield .
short-term interest rates fell yesterday at the government 's weekly treasury bill auction .
the average discount rate on new three-month treasury bills was 7.37 % , the lowest since the average of 7.36 % at the auction on oct. 17 , 1988 .
the average discount rate was 7.42 % on new six-month bills , the lowest since the average of 7.35 % at the auction on july 31 , 1989 .
rates is determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value .
higher bidding the investor 's return thus , narrow while lower bidding it widen .
the percentage rates is calculated on a 360-day year , while the coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year .
both issues is dated oct. 19 .
the 13-week bills mature jan. 18 , 1990 , and the 26-week bills mature april 19 , 1990 .
investment-grade corporate bonds one to 1 1/2 point lower ended .
no new issues there was .
foreign bonds surged as the dollar weakened against most major currencies .
among benchmark issues : -- japan 's no. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended up 1.17 point on brokers screens at 96.15 , .
the yield was 5.245 % .
-- west germany 's 6 3/4 % issue due june 1999 6.99 % to yield ended up 0.91 point at 98.30 , .
-- britain 's 11 3/4 % bond due 2003/2007 10.12 % , to yield ended 1 1/8 higher at 111 19/32 while the 11 3/4 % notes due 1991 21/32 rose to 98 26/32 12.74 % to yield .
mortgage securities most of friday 's gains gave up as active issues ended 24/32 to 30/32 point lower .
dealers said morning activity was hectic as prices dropped in response to gains in the stock market and losses in treasury securities , but trading slowed to moderate levels in the afternoon .
government national mortgage association 9 % securities for november delivery was quoted down 30/32 from friday late yesterday at 98 4/32 , ; 9 1/2 % securities was down 27/32 at 100 5/32 ; and 10 % securities was at 102 2/32 , off 24/32 .
federal home loan mortgage corp. 9 % securities was at 97 1/4 , down 3/4 .
on friday , mortgage issues gained as much as 1 5/32 .
late yesterday ginnie mae 9 % securities 9.39 % was yielding to a 12-year average life assumption , as the spread above the treasury 10-year note 0.01 percentage point narrowed to 1.42 .
traders some busy dealings in freddie mac and federal national mortgage association securities there was because underwriters from last week 's heavy slate of real estate mortgage investment conduit issues collateral for new deals to gather moved said .
continued heavy sales by mortgage originators , which increased amounts of fixed-rate mortgage-backed issues with lower rates is producing the remic-related purchases offsetting was .
no new-issue activity there was in the derivative market .
rebounding stocks and weaker treasury prices municipal bonds drove 1/4 to 3/4 point lower in late dealings .
the session losses municipal dollar bonds close they to where was before the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average friday a capital markets rally prompted left .
trading was hectic during the morning , with players whether equities would continue friday 's free fall or stabilize after a brief spot of weakness to gauge trying .
tax-exempts the session flat to a touch higher started on anticipation of further stock market erosion , but bond prices rapidly turned south as it more clear that a repeat of the october 1987 crash was n't at hand became .
professionals municipal trading dominated throughout the session .
traders retail investors the sidelines to be hugging until a measure of volatility is wrung out of the market seemed said .
new jersey turnpike authority 's 7.20 % issue of 2018 was off 3/4 at 98 1/2 bid , 7.32 % , yielding up 0.07 percentage point from late friday .
florida board of education 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2023 was 5/8 point weaker at 99 1/2 bid .
the 7 1/8 % issue of triborough bridge and tunnel authority of new york , due 2019 , was off 5/8 at 98 1/8 bid .
and fairfax county , va. , water authority 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2027 was down 3/4 at 99 7/8 bid .
serial bond yields was up about 0.05 percentage point .
bma corp. , kansas city , mo. , it `` strategic alternatives , '' for its business men 's assurance co. unit , be weighing and possible buyers of the life and health insurance operation is contacting said .
a bma spokesman said `` runaway medical costs '' health insurance `` a significant challenge , '' have made and margins also have been pinched by changes in the mix of life-insurance products consumers now demand .
the spokesman the business men 's assurance unit about $ 288 million of the company 's $ 488 million in 1988 revenue , represented and the unit 's operating income was about $ 10 million , said .
bma 's investment banker , alex . brown & sons inc. , possible buyers for the unit to contact have been authorized .
laidlaw transportation ltd. it its stake in adt ltd. of bermuda raised to 29.4 % from 28 % said .
a spokesman for laidlaw the price the toronto transportation and waste services concern for the additional shares , which he were acquired `` over the last couple of weeks . '' said paid to disclose declined
the spokesman laidlaw because of british takeover regulations that a company more than 30 % acquiring an offer to extend to the rest of the company 's shareholders require its stake in adt would n't increase beyond 30 % `` without a great deal of thought '' said .
adt , a security services and auctions company , trade on london 's stock exchange .
laidlaw is 47%-controlled by canadian pacific ltd. , a montreal transportation , resources and industrial holding concern .
nintendo co. , a japanese maker of video games , electronic information systems and playing cards , a 23 % unconsolidated surge in pretax profit to 61.41 billion yen ( $ 429 million ) from 50 billion yen ( $ 349.9 million ) posted for the fiscal year ended aug. 31 .
sales 40 % surged to 250.17 billion yen from 178.61 billion .
net income 11 % rose to 29.62 billion yen from 26.68 billion .
without specific product breakdowns , detailing nintendo its bullish upsurge in sales -- including advanced computer games and television entertainment systems -- credited to surging `` leisure-oriented '' sales in foreign markets .
for instance , export sales for leisure items alone , 184.74 billion yen totaled up from 106.06 billion in the previous fiscal year in the 12 months , .
however , domestic leisure sales , was lower .
hertz corp. of park ridge , n.j. , it merrill lynch capital markets retained its hertz equipment rental corp. unit to sell said .
`` no pressing need the unit , to sell there is but we it is doing so we can concentrate on our core business , automobiles renting in the u.s. and abroad , '' william slider , hertz 's executive vice president said .
`` we to sell at the right price is only going '' .
hertz equipment operating profit before depreciation of $ 90 million on revenue of $ 150 million in 1988 had .
the closely held hertz corp. annual revenue of close to $ 2 billion in 1988 , of which $ 1.7 billion was contributed by its hertz rent a car operations world-wide had .
hertz equipment is a major supplier of rental equipment in the u.s. , france , spain and the u.k .
it commercial and industrial equipment including earth-moving , aerial , compaction and electrical equipment , compressors , cranes , forklifts and trucks supply .
interspec inc. a net loss of $ 2.4 million for the fiscal third quarter ended aug. 31 reported .
it the loss resulted from startup and introduction costs related to a new medical ultrasound equipment system said .
in the year-earlier quarter , the company net income of $ 955,000 , or 15 cents a share reported .
the manufacturer of ultrasound diagnostic systems , based in ambler , pa. , a nine-month net loss of $ 2.43 million compared with net income of $ 2.71 million , or 44 cents a share , for the nine-month period a year earlier reported .
in over-the-counter trading , interspec 37.5 cents fell to $ 4.25 .
richard p. simmons , chairman and chief executive officer , allegheny ludlum corp. third-quarter net of about $ 34 million , or $ 1.50 a share , down from $ 38.4 million , or $ 1.70 a share , a year earlier , to report expect institutional investors in new york told .
he sales for the pittsburgh-based producer of specialty steels and other materials fell to about $ 265 million in the third quarter from $ 320.5 million a year earlier , said .
he the third-quarter estimate profit for the nine months of $ 4.65 a share , `` almost equal to the full-year 1988 earnings of $ 108.6 million , or $ 4.81 a share '' indicate said .
mr. simmons the third-quarter results continued improvements in productivity and operating margins reflect said .
he capital spending next year will rise to about $ 45 million from about $ 35 million this year said .
u.s. banknote co. it the expiration date of its $ 7-a-share tender offer for international banknote co. again extended to nov. 15 said .
u.s. banknote said it is in negotiations `` certain facilities , '' which it did n't name , to sell to a third party , and it the extension need a definitive agreement on the sale to reach to try .
u.s. banknote it if completed , the sale , antitrust issues raised by the u.s. justice department about u.s. banknote 's offer international banknote to buy apparently would satisfy believe said .
u.s. banknote `` there can be no assurance '' a sale agreement would be concluded said .
it the tender offer financing arrangements to complete to be extended further would probably have also said .
u.s. banknote citibank the expiration date of its commitment for senior secured financing extended to nov. 15 said .
the offer , made june 1 , have been extended several times .
closely held u.s. banknote the $ 7 a share , or $ 126 million , offered for as many as 14.9 million shares , or 78.6 % , of international banknote 's shares outstanding .
u.s. banknote that as of oct. 13 , 16.1 million shares , or about 84.3 % of the fully diluted shares outstanding , had been tendered said .
gitano group inc. it 50 % of regatta sport ltd. , a closely held apparel maker , to buy with the assumption of $ 3 million of contingent debt agreed said .
under the terms of the contract , new york-based gitano the option the remaining 50 % of regatta , a maker of men 's and women 's clothes sold primarily in department stores , to acquire under certain conditions have .
that 50 % by clifford parker , regatta 's president and chief executive officer , who regatta 's operations to manage under gitano will continue is now held .
mr. parker in 1989 , regatta sales will have `` in excess of $ 10 million '' and a profit , will show said .
gitano , which budget-priced apparel sold mainly through mass merchandisers like k mart and wal-mart , make the regatta acquisition its strategy to expand into department stores will enhance said .
this fall , gitano moderately priced clothes aimed at department stores under the gloria vanderbilt trademark , which gitano recently acquired manufacturing began .
enron corp. , houston , the sale of preference units of its newly formed enron ngl partners l.p. master limited partnership subsidiary will result in an undetermined gain in the fourth quarter said .
in the year-ago quarter , the natural gas concern net income of $ 25.2 million , or 34 cents a share , on revenue of about $ 1.46 billion had .
those results a $ 2.7 million charge related to the retirement of debt included .
in a related move , enron it the number of the partnership 's units it will offer increased to 6,930,000 from 5,500,000 said .
the old and revised numbers both over-allotment provisions include .
enron each unit will be priced in the $ 19-to-$21 range and about 80 % of the partnership equity will represent said .
net proceeds from the offering to be close to $ 200 million is expected .
goldman , sachs & co. , and drexel burnham lambert inc. is lead underwriters .
arthur m. goldberg he his unsolicited tender offer of $ 32 a share tender offer , or $ 154.3 million , for di giorgio corp. extended to nov. 1 said .
dig acquisition corp. , the new jersey investor 's acquisition vehicle , that as of the close of business yesterday , 560,839 shares had been tendered said .
including the stake dig already held , dig a total of about 25 % of di giorgio 's shares hold on a fully diluted basis .
the offer , which common and preferred stock purchase rights , also include to expire last night at midnight was .
the new expiration date is the date on which dig 's financing commitments , which about $ 240 million , total to expire is .
dig is a unit of dig holding corp. , a unit of rose partners l.p .
mr. goldberg is the sole general partner in rose partners .
in august , di giorgio , a san francisco food products and building materials marketing and distribution company , mr. goldberg 's offer rejected as inadequate .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , di giorgio closed down $ 1.75 at $ 31.50 a share , .
after years of fading into the background , two-tone photography is coming back .
trendy magazine advertisements stark black-and-white photos of hollywood celebrities jeans , shoes and liquor pitching feature .
portrait studios accustomed to shooting only in color a rush to black-and-white portrait orders report .
and black-and-white photography classes is crowded with students .
on seventh avenue , designers the monochrome look have been advancing with clothing collections done entirely in black and white .
and classic black-and-white movies a comeback on videocassette tapes , spurred , in part , by the backlash against colorization of old films is enjoying .
`` the pendulum is swinging back to black and white , '' richard demoulin , the general manager of eastman kodak co. 's professional photography division say .
until two years ago , sales of black-and-white film had been declining steadily since the 1960s .
but last year , buoyed by increased use in advertising and other commercial applications , sales 5 % , increased and they at least that much to jump again this year is expected .
photographic companies the resurging market , to tap some black-and-white product lines reviving and new ones developing is scrambling .
at kodak , which the market largely ignored for years , black-and-white film sales now account for nearly 15 % of the company 's $ 3 billion in film and paper sales annually , up from 10 % three years ago .
the rochester , n.y. , photographic giant t-max 3200 , one of the fastest and most sensitive monochrome films marketing recently began .
aimed at commercial photographers , the film can be used in very low light without quality , sacrificing donald franz of photofinishing newsletter say .
agfa corp. , a unit of bayer ag a portion of the $ 2 billion-a-year industry to snare also trying is .
agfa olympic gold medalist florence griffith-joyner a new line of black-and-white paper that 's geared to consumers and will compete directly with kodak 's papers to endorse recently signed .
slated for market by the end of the year , `` the paper could have been introduced a long time ago but the market was n't there then , '' an agfa spokesman say .
the biggest beneficiary of the black-and-white revival is likely to be international paper co. 's ilford division , known in the industry for its premium products .
this year sales of ilford 's four varieties of black-and-white film growth in the overall market , is outpacing although the company wo n't say by exactly how much .
`` we the trend last , hope '' laurie dicara , ilford 's marketing communications director say .
for baby boomers who being photographed in color , grew up black and white eye-catching and exotic seem .
`` it an archival , almost nostalgic quality to it , have '' owen b. butler , the chairman of the applied photography department at rochester institute of technology say .
`` you can shift out of reality with black and white , '' he add .
such features have been especially attractive to professional photographers and marketing executives , who their use of black and white in advertising have been steadily increasing .
gap inc. , whose latest ad campaign black-and-white shots of hollywood stars , artists and other well-known personalities the retailer 's jeans and t-shirts modeling feature consider .
richard crisman , the account manager for the campaign , gap black and white its ads to distinguish from the color spreads of competitors did n't intentionally choose say .
`` we the individual , not the environment , to highlight wanted '' he say , `` and '' black and white you that to do better than color allow .
the campaign a cleo award as this year 's best ad by a specialty retailer won .
even food products and automobiles , which have long depended on color , the switch is making .
`` companies black and white a stronger statement , will convey feel '' marc l. hauser , a chicago photographer who is working on a black-and-white print ad for stouffer food corp. 's lean cuisine say .
other companies that two-tone ads is currently using american express co. and epson america inc include .
portrait studios have also latched onto the trend .
black and white , using `` we housewives look like stars , can make '' john perrin say .
his on-broadway photography studio in portland , ore. , its business doubled last year and , he say , solid is booked for the next five .
one customer , dayna brunsdon , she a color portrait spurned for black and white because `` it be more dramatic say .
i it show to my friends , and they all wow say ` ' .
it is n't ordinary like color . ''
most consumers black-and-white film still , is n't plunking into their cameras family snapshots to take .
one big obstacle that few drugstores the film develop anymore is .
it typically , must be mailed to a handful of processors and to be processed and returned may take a week or more .
black-and-white film a little less than color film , cost consumers and processing the same cost .
but for photofinishers , developing costs for black-and-white film is higher .
some companies that problem to tackle is starting .
for example , ilford , a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs recently introduced .
the company intent on customers , wooing its sponsorship of black-and-white photography classes is also increasing .
agfa scores of photography contests at high schools and colleges , similarly , is sponsoring free black-and-white film and paper offering as prizes .
and kodak an instructional video is distributing to processors on its monochrome film how to develop more efficiently .
other companies related products is introducing .
charles beseler co. , a leading maker of photographic enlargers , a complete darkroom starter kit at teen-agers who their own black-and-white photographs to process want targeted introduced last month .
the kit , which a suggested retail price of $ 250 have and a bestseller , has already become was introduced after retailers numerous requests from parents for children 's photography equipment noticed .
`` it computers as hobbies have waned , seem '' ian brightman , beseler 's chairman and chief executive officer say .
but some industry observers the resurgence of black and white is only a fad believe .
they the emergence of still electronic photography , more newspapers turning to color on their pages and measurable improvements in the quality of color prints cite .
mr. butler of the rochester institute `` black and white the same quantum leaps in technological development as color , have n't made '' say .
`` today the color print is far superior to prints of 10 years ago .
but popular photography , a leading magazine for photographers , 15 of the greatest photos ever made when selected for its latest issue photography 's 150th anniversary , celebrating all were black and white .
alfred debat of professional photographers of america `` it a classic spirit be got and carry over emotionally , '' say .
`` that be the appeal .
mcclatchy newspapers inc. improvements in advertising and subscription revenue led to a 21 % gain in third-quarter profit to $ 8.8 million , or 31 cents a share , from $ 7.2 million , or 25 cents a share said .
sales more than 7 % rose to $ 94.9 million from $ 88.3 million .
the sacramento , calif. , company improved performance also attributed to a lower effective tax rate and higher interest income .
for the nine months , the newspaper chain almost a 23 % increase in profit to $ 23.6 million , or 83 cents a share , from $ 19.2 million , or 68 cents a share had .
sales almost 7 % grew to $ 279.1 million from $ 261.3 million .
mcclatchy the sacramento ( calif . ) bee and tacoma ( wash . ) news tribune , and other papers in western states publish .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , the company closed down 25 cents at $ 25.25 a share , .
agip s.p . a. and societe national elf aquitaine , the state oil companies of italy and france , respectively , an offer gatoil suisse s.a to buy submitted .
the price was n't disclosed .
a spokesman for gatoil that the swiss oil concern the offer , submitted last friday , along with two other offers , also submitted last week was examining said .
those two offers was private and the spokesman the bidding companies to identify refused .
the spokesman that at least two more offers is expected from other companies within two weeks further said .
gatoil suisse an oil refinery in switzerland with a capacity of 70,000 barrels a day , own along with a network of gasoline retailing outlets .
while friday 's plunging stock market new fears about the economy 's prospects , prompted a little-known indicator that the economy 's ups and downs have faithfully foreshadowed by exceptionally long lead times point to a sustained rise in overall business activity .
the barometer , developed here , by analysts at columbia university 's center for international business cycle research a record high of 223.0 reached in august , the latest month available , and the columbia researchers that it have moved even higher since then estimate .
the latest reading of 223.0 was up from 222.3 in july and 215.3 as recently as march .
the august rise the fifth straight monthly gain for the indicator , which the 1967 average use as a base of 100 marked .
in contrast , while up in august , the commerce department 's widely followed index of leading indicators , have fallen repeatedly since a high reaching early this year .
its ragged behavior through much of 1989 some forecasters the start of a new recession to anticipate perhaps before year 's end have prompted .
but `` the far stronger showing of the columbia index a recession any time soon highly unlikely , make '' geoffrey h. moore , the director of the columbia facility say .
a leading authority on the business cycle , also mr. moore is a member of the business cycle dating group , the panel of private economists that decide for the government expansions and recessions when begin and end .
the group normally convene a change in the economy 's general course likely only when seem .
`` no meeting is scheduled because the expansion no sign of going off the tracks , show '' mr. moore report .
based largely on the recent strength in their index , the long leading indicator , called the columbia analysts uninterrupted economic growth foresee through the rest of this year and next year as well .
they a 2.6 % rise in 1990 in the gross national product , expect after adjustment for inflation .
the index 's longstanding ability recessions or recoveries , to signal as the case may be , by substantially greater periods than the commerce department 's index of leading indicators this optimism underlying is .
over the full post-world war ii era , on the average , the columbia index , sustained declines have entered 14 months before the onset of recessions and turned up eight months before recoveries .
the comparable lead times for the commerce index , whose components the stock market , include is far shorter -- 10 months before recessions and only three months before recoveries .
the columbia economists the long leading index before the stock market crash in october that the great depression ushered in how would have behaved , it had existed , in 1929 , also have reconstructed .
the indicator a peak reached in january 1929 and then fell steadily up to and through the crash .
`` it was an entirely different pattern from what we 're seeing now , '' mr. moore say .
in august , the bond measure was at its highest monthly average since early 1987 .
it also rose last friday , while the stock market sagged .
other components of the long leading indicator a ratio of prices to unit labor costs in manufacturing industries , the m2 version of the money supply , adjusted for inflation , and the volume of new home-building permits include .
notably absent from the columbia index the stock market , which mr. moore `` is simply no longer such a good indicator of the economy 's long-range prospects , though still it is useful for some short-run twists and turns anticipating '' say is .
the stock market -- as reflected in the standard & poor 's index of 500 common stocks -- as recently as 1975 , was rated by the national bureau of economic research as the best of the 12 leading indicators that the commerce index then made up .
it a mark of 80 out of a possible 100 , was assigned compared with scores ranging as low as 69 for the other components .
the stock market some precursory power , have lost analysts at the columbia center claim , because of the growing impact of international developments .
`` stocks more sensitive to factors not directly tied to the domestic economy , have become '' mr. moore the exchange rate for the dollar on currency markets , the foreign-trade balance and inflows of foreign capital citing say , .
he that the rise of such computer-based practices as program trading the stock market 's relevancy to the economic outlook have diminished also feel .
bsn s.a. , a leading french food group , it birkel g.m.b . h. , a west german pasta maker to acquire agreed said .
the value of the acquisition was n't disclosed .
the move is in line with bsn 's strategy of its share of the european pasta market gradually building through external growth .
bsn a 15 % interest in birkel , a closely held concern will initially acquire .
the french group an agreement the right all the shares outstanding , to buy giving it have and this could be completed within a few months , a bsn spokeswoman said .
bsn the takeover was submitted for approval by the west german cartel office , said .
birkel is west germany 's second-biggest producer of pasta , with sales of 250 million marks ( $ 133.4 million ) in 1988 .
it 750 workers have at three production units in southwest germany , and is that nation 's leading producer of pasta sauces .
the acquisition bsn 's position in the european pasta market strengthen .
the french group currently rank second after barilla group of italy , whose sales is chiefly in the italian market .
moody 's investors service inc. it its rating on $ 281 million of senior and subordinated debt of this thrift holding company , reduced to c from ca , it bondholders only `` negligible principal '' will recover believe saying said .
the agency it american continental 's preferred stock rating confirmed at c said .
american continental 's thrift unit , los angeles-based lincoln savings & loan association , is in receivership and the parent company have filed for protection from creditor lawsuits under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code .
moody 's investors service inc. its ratings on the subordinated debt of centrust downgraded to caa from b-3 .
the rating agency the ratings for long-term deposits also reduced to b-3 from ba-3 and for preferred stock to ca from caa .
the rating agency about $ 85 million in securities was affected said .
the downgrades was prompted , moody 's said , by the continuing turmoil in the junk bond market and the suspension of dividends on centrust 's preferred stock .
moody 's it if completed , the proposed sale of 63 centrust branches to great western bank the thrift 's funding and market position could , endanger believed also said .
the stock market a repeat of black monday avoided as prices recovered from an early slide , spurred by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
the dow jones industrials closed up 88.12 points , at 2657.38 , the fourth-biggest gain ever , after being down as much as 63.52 points in the morning .
the rally about half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , erased but analysts is cautious about the market 's outlook .
the dollar also rebounded , while bond prices plummeted and treasury bill rates soared .
junk bonds also recovered somewhat , though trading stalled remained .
gold also rose .
tokyo stock prices a 1.8 % plunge on monday following bounced back in early trading tuesday .
the dollar also moved higher in tokyo .
donald trump his $ 7.54 billion offer for american air , withdrew the `` recent change in market conditions '' citing .
amr $ 22.125 , slid to $ 76.50 .
a ual group financing to get for a lower bid , possibly $ 250 a share also , tried .
ual $ 56.875 , fell to $ 222.875 .
ibm 's earnings 30 % slightly more than expected tumbled in the third quarter , .
the computer giant a stronger dollar and a delay in a new high-end disk drive shipping partly cited .
analysts is downbeat about ibm 's outlook for the next few quarters .
u.s. auto makers 10.4 % to decrease car production in the fourth quarter , with virtually all the decline coming from the big three plan .
output at japanese-owned and managed plants in the u.s. is due 42 % to rise .
budget director darman he much leeway in with gramm-rudman spending cuts , which effect took yesterday coping wo n't give federal agencies said .
darman congress a deficit plan to finish to prod hope .
the s&l bailout agency would be restricted by a new bill in it capital how raise .
the ways and means plan another possible obstacle sick thrifts to selling would create .
a natural gas rule was struck down by a federal appeals court .
the regulation pipeline firms had prevented from part of $ 1 billion in costs passing along to customers .
the supreme court whether a federal court a merger that regulatory approval have won but anticompetitive been ruled in a private suit may dismantle to decide agreed .
merrill lynch 's profit 37 % slid in the third quarter .
bear stearns a 7.5 % gain , posted while painewebber a decline due to a year-ago gain had .
blue arrow of britain to return to the name manpower and a big write-off take plan .
the moves the firm its dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market solidify may help .
j.p. morgan a $ 1.82 billion loss for the third quarter , posted a big addition to loan-loss reserves reflecting .
ncnb 's profit more than doubled .
k mart pace membership warehouse to acquire for $ 322 million , its presence in the growing wholesale-store business expanding agreed .
the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below is a guide to general levels but actual transactions do n't always represent .
reserves traded among commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $ 1 million or more .
the minimum unit is $ 100,000 .
these rate indications is n't directly comparable ; lending practices vary widely by location .
intel corp. it an agreement with alliant computer systems corp. software standards to develop for intel 's i860 microprocessor reached said .
the i860 , introduced earlier this year , is intel 's entry in the crowded market for reduced instruction set computing , or risc , computers .
intel , based in santa clara , calif. , is the market leader for traditional microprocessors with its 8086 family that the heart of ibm-compatible personal computers form .
under the agreement , intel $ 3 million will invest a 4 % stake in alliant , a maker of minisupercomputers for scientists and engineers to acquire .
alliant , based in littleton , mass. , its parallel-computing technologies will license to intel , a way many i860 microprocessors in a single computer work simultaneously on a problem to let providing users .
alliant it the microprocessor to use in future products plan said .
it its plans for its current product line upgrading to discuss declined .
omnicare inc. , which its position in the medical and dental markets , to expand intends it a cotton and gauze products division acquired from closely held sterile products corp. for $ 8.2 million said .
omnicare it the division `` substantial sales volume '' to add and a positive contribution to our earnings to make in 1990 and beyond expect said .
in 1988 the cincinnati company $ 3.1 million , or 32 cents a share , earned on revenue of $ 148.5 million .
omnicare the division operate under the trade name acco and the medical and dental markets supply said .
omnicare the business , based in st. louis , sales of more than $ 14 million had in the fiscal year ended march 31 , said .
burmah oil plc , a british independent oil and specialty chemicals marketing concern , shv holdings n.v. of the netherlands a 6.7 % stake in the company have built up said .
james alexander , a burmah spokesman , shv `` a little under 5 % '' of burmah had previously owned for about two years said .
he the dutch company burmah had n't notified of its reason for the stake , increasing said .
shv , which last year its north sea oil and gas operations merged with those of calor group plc , have been pegged by speculators as a possible suitor for burmah oil in recent weeks .
shv 40 % of calor also own .
burmah , which the castrol brand of lubricant oils , own a 17 % rise in net income to # 43.5 million ( $ 68.3 million ) in the first half reported .
j.p. industries inc. it a definitive agreement its builders ' hardware group to sell to closely held nalcor inc. of beverly hills , calif signed said .
terms was n't disclosed , but a j.p. industries spokesman said the amount j.p. industries will get for the group is `` a little better than expected by the marketplace , and the marketplace $ 25 million to $ 30 million had been expecting '' .
the group consist of weslock corp. and jpi modern inc .
j.p. industries , which is based in ann arbor , mich. , the sale a previously announced program itself to divest of its hardware and plumbing supplies operations complete said .
the company 's remaining business is the manufacture and sale of engine and transmissions products for industrial and transportation applications .
a $ 3.1 million provision for doubtful accounts , citing dallas-based national heritage inc. a loss for its fourth quarter ended june 30 posted .
the operator of nursing homes and retirement centers a unit of troubled southmark corp. , it a net loss of $ 1.6 million , or nine cents a share , sustained compared with net income of $ 1.3 million , or eight cents a share , a year earlier said .
operating revenue 13 % rose to $ 22.2 million from $ 19.7 million in the year-earlier quarter .
the company the $ 3.1 million reserve doubt about the collectability of receivables owed to national heritage by some of the real estate partnerships it manage to reflect was created said .
the company expenses incurred by the previous board and management in the recent contest for control was recognized primarily in the first quarter ended sept. 30 also said .
national heritage stock 12.5 cents fell yesterday to close at $ 1.375 a share in new york stock exchange composite trading .
united biscuits ( holdings ) plc , a british food producer , the creation of a european group its trading interests in the region to bring together announced .
the new group all of united biscuit 's manufacturing and marketing operations in the food sector apart from those based in the u.s. will comprise .
united biscuits the combined group , which businesses such as mcvities biscuits and terry 's confectionery , will include annual sales of more than # 1.5 billion ( $ 2.35 billion ) and trading profit of more than # 160 million ( $ 251 million ) will have said .
`` the new structure united biscuits to focus clearly upon opportunities for planned growth during the 1990s , will enable '' bob clarke , deputy chairman and group chief executive said .
last month , united biscuits its entire restaurant operations to sell to grand metropolitan plc for # 180 million agreed .
an american journalist trial now is standing in namibia .
this is the place that over world opinion have been celebrating in the expectation that it an election to hold be going .
the u.s. journalist 's `` crime '' that the head of the commission charged with the election 's fairness , overseeing bryan o'linn , was openly sympathetic to swapo was writing .
shortly after that , mr. o'linn scott stanley arrested and his passport confiscated had .
mr. stanley is on trial over charges that he a proclamation , issued by the south african administrator general earlier this year , which a crime punishable by two years in prison for `` it any person to insult , disparate or belittle '' the election commission made violated .
the stanley affair do n't bode well for the future of democracy or freedom of anything in namibia swapo the government running when start .
to the extent mr. stanley anything wrong , have done it that he is out of step with the consensus of world intellectuals that the namibian guerrillas was above all else the victims of suppression by neighboring south africa may be .
swapo favorable western media treatment have enjoyed since the u.n. general assembly it the `` sole , authentic representative '' of namibia 's people in ever declared
last year , the u.s. a peace settlement brokered cuba 's `` afrika korps '' to remove from angola and `` free and fair '' elections that south africa 's control of namibia would end hold .
the elections is set for nov. 7 .
in july , mr. stanley , editor of american press international , a washington d.c.-based conservative wire service , namibia visited to report on the u.n.-monitored election campaign .
he mr. o'linn , head of a commission charged with electoral intimidation , investigating interviewed and that mr. o'linn was openly sympathetic to swapo and its leaders indeed had defended in court reported .
after mr. stanley 's article was published in two namibian newspapers , mr. o'linn criminal charges had brought against their editors , publisher and lawyer .
mr. stanley was arrested along with the others and charged he when returned to namibia this month .
both the state department and the lawyers committee for freedom of the press mr. stanley 's detention have protested .
mr. stanley 's arrest is the latest in a series of incidents that namibia 's elections to derail threaten .
both south african and swapo extremists voters is intimidating .
the u.s. is in the habit of peace settlements arranging and its hands then washing over the tragic results .
it the chance that record to redress in namibia now have .
state and the human-rights community that mr. stanley and his fellow defendants be released and that the united nation 's monitors certain that mr. o'linn's commission election complaints from all sides investigate make should insist .
commodity futures prices the stability of the stock market generally reflected following its plunge friday .
yesterday , at first the stock market 's influence nervousness created .
it more of an undercurrent than a dominating force later , however , became as individual markets reacted more to their own factors .
gold , the traditional haven in times of financial crisis , its inverse lockstep with the dollar , continued rising early in the day as the currency fell , and some of its gains then giving up as the dollar recovered .
copper and crude oil reacted sharply to the concern that yesterday a crash a potentially devastating effect on the economy could have .
copper fell and little rebound showed through the day as one of the major supply problems that prices had been supporting to be solved appeared .
crude oil declined early , but as the stock market early gains , retained it , stronger , ending with a small net loss too , became .
trading in cotton and sugar was nervous and small declines showed .
in chicago , grain and soybean prices rose slightly .
livestock and meat prices , however , dropped on concern that a financial crisis consumption of beef and pork would cut .
in commodity markets yesterday : precious metals : futures prices was moderately higher as gold some of its early gains gave up and platinum first falling and then later rising behaved independently , .
silver performed quietly .
the spot october gold price $ 4 rose to $ 367.30 an ounce .
the more active december delivery gold settled with a gain of $ 3.90 an ounce at $ 371.20 , after trading as high as $ 374 .
december silver was up 2.3 cents an ounce at $ 5.163 .
platinum easing early on concern over a possible weaker economy , but recovering later , as the stock market strengthened behaved more like an industrial metal , .
gold was nowhere the spectacular performer it was two years ago on black monday .
for one thing , last friday , precious metals markets closed before the stock market went into its late-in-the-day nose dive , so it could n't react to it .
the stock market back on friday , oct. 16 , l987 , declined during the day , and gold prices surged as the stock market fell .
that day the october 1987 contract as much as $ 8.70 rose to as high as $ 471.60 , and the more deferred positions , due to mature as late as march 1989 , as much as $ 9.60 rose .
on black monday , oct. 19 , 1987 , the october contract further gains , tacked on rising to as high as $ 491.50 for a gain of almost $ 20 on top of the friday advances , before almost $ 10 of that giving up at the close .
yesterday 's october gain of $ 4 was miniscule compared with that .
one analyst , peter cardillo of josephthal & co. , new york , the gold market some good price-supporting technical factors that prices to rise , would have caused with or without the stock market already had said .
`` what the stock market did the rise place to take earlier than it would have happened , was cause '' mr. cardillo said .
he a good chance that gold its gains will retain and rise further , there be said .
he a drop in interest rates , which gold would help by the dollar keeping from rising expect .
according to mr. cardillo , the impact of the strong dollar finally , should be reflected in reduced exports in the august merchandise trade deficit , the figures when is released today .
he be this would damaging to the dollar and supportive for gold , said .
that friday 's 190-point stock market plunge might be a harbinger of things to come for the economy , worried petroleum futures traders a halt to the recent string of increases in crude oil futures prices called .
the u.s. benchmark crude , west texas intermediate , closed down 30 cents at $ 20.59 a barrel for november delivery , .
some analysts crude was due for a correction anyhow , following several days of significant gains said .
but most market observers that friday 's stock market drop what spirits in the petroleum pits dampened yesterday is agreed .
until yesterday , futures prices had been headed up on expectations that world oil demand to be strong will continue .
the organization of petroleum exporting countries its production ceiling for the fourth quarter increased based on projections of robust demand .
so any bearish indicator , such as friday 's precipitous drop in the stock market , shivers send as well through the oil markets .
after reacting early in the trading day to friday 's plummet , futures prices indeed , firmed up again as traders note took of the stock market 's partial recovery yesterday .
futures prices fell and little rebound showed as one major labor problem that prices had been underpinning to be solved appeared .
the december contract 3.05 cents a pound declined to $ 1.2745 .
prices was down from the outset of trading on concern that a drop in the stock market a weakened economy and a consequent reduction in copper use might create .
but the recovery in the stock market little help for copper provided as word that a three-month strike at the highland valley mine in british columbia was about over , spread according to an analyst .
highland valley is a large canadian producer and principal supplier to japan , which copper seeking elsewhere as its inventories shrank recently began .
last week it that company and union negotiations the major hurdle , the contracting out of work by the company had overcome was reported .
the analyst said , only minor points to be cleaned up now , remain .
he `` for all intents and purposes , an agreement to have been achieved , appear '' said .
copper inventories in new york 's commodity exchange warehouses rose yesterday by 516 tons , to 10,004 tons .
last week london metal exchange copper inventories 13,575 tons , declined to 89,300 tons .
the lme stocks decline about as expected , was but the comex gain was n't .
the analyst this however , was brushed aside by concern over the stock market , said .
at one point in futures trading , as the stock market firmed , the december contract rose to as high as $ 1.2965 , but it was n't able the gain to sustain .
`` it was simply overbought , '' he said , and by funds that computer is guided selling prices depress helped .
futures prices eased , more in reaction to hurricane jerry than to any influence of the stock market .
the december contract ended with a loss of 0.22 cent a pound , at 74.48 cents .
ernest simon , cotton specialist for prudential-bache securities , new york technical considerations following the hurricane , which was a factor in the market friday , prices to decline yesterday , caused said .
prices rose sharply friday as the storm approached texas and louisiana , which is part of the mississippi delta cotton-growing area .
mr. simon after the potential effect of the hurricane , absorbing prices to slip late friday , however , began said .
he that selling continued yesterday and prices under pressure , kept said .
mr. simon colder weather is being predicted for the high plains of texas and the northern states of the delta during the coming weekend , said .
he that traders ' attention , have n't yet captured added .
futures prices declined .
the march contract was off 0.32 cent a pound at 13.97 cents .
at one point in early trading the march price rose to as high as 14.22 cents the stock market when recovered , but the price then fell back .
one analyst said , a price-depressing factor , that india , which around 200,000 tons of sugar to buy in the world market , had been expected any purchases did n't make was .
the analyst india 200,000 tons recently bought and more , to buy was expected said .
another analyst that india may have pulled back because of the concern over the stock market thought .
judith ganes , analyst for shearson lehman hutton , new york `` india that if a severe drop in the stock market there was and it sugar , affected it could buy at lower prices , may have felt '' said .
at any rate , she added , `` india the sugar , need so it it to buy will be in sooner or later '' .
the prices of cattle and hog futures contracts dropped sharply because traders that friday the stock market plunge will linger long enough them their spending at the supermarket , to rein in which demand for beef and pork would hurt to prompt in the minds of u.s. consumers speculated .
the price of the hog contract for october delivery its maximum permissible daily limit of 1.5 cents a pound dropped .
the prices of most grain futures contracts rose slightly yesterday out of relief that the stock market signs of recovering was showing .
earlier in the session , the prices of several soybean contracts new lows set .
a broad rally began several major processors futures contracts , buying advantage apparently to take of the price dip when began .
knight-ridder inc. it increased earnings per share contrary to reported analysts ' comments that the publishing company 's earnings would be down would report for the third quarter , said .
a company spokesman he the confusion was caused james batten , knight-ridder 's chairman and chief executive , new york analysts that knight-ridder 's earnings per share for the first nine months of 1989 would `` be behind a little bit '' from like period of when told two weeks ago believed said
the knight-ridder spokesman the third-quarter earnings the company that to report oct. 24 plan to be up is expected said .
the spokesman he was `` comfortable '' with revised analysts ' projections that the company earnings of between 62 cents and 64 cents a share , would report compared with the 53 cents a share it reported for the 1988 third quarter said .
knight-ridder it agreed with estimates that net income for all of 1989 would be around $ 2.86 a share , compared with $ 2.59 a share a year earlier said .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , knight-ridder closed down 37.5 cents at $ 51.75 , .
dd acquisition corp. it its $ 45-a-share offer for dunkin ' donuts inc. extended to nov. 1 from yesterday said .
the offer an indicated value of $ 268 million have .
dd acquisition is a partnership of unicorp canada corp. 's kingsbridge capital group unit and cara operations ltd .
as previously reported , under the terms of a confidentiality agreement with dunkin ' donuts , the partners their offer open until nov. 1 , to keep and any additional shares not to acquire except through a tender offer expiring on that date agreed .
dd acquisition that it 15 % of the common shares of the doughnut shop chain already own and that as of the close of business friday an additional 11 % had been tendered to its offer said .
dunkin ' donuts is based in randolph , mass .
cara operations , a food services concern , and unicorp , a holding company with interests in oil and natural gas and financial services , is based in toronto .
golden west financial corp. , above the turbulence that most of the thrift industry , have troubled riding a 16 % increase of third-quarter earnings posted to $ 41.8 millon , or 66 cents a share .
the company $ 36 million , or 57 cents a share , earned in the year-ago quarter .
herbert m. sandler , chairman and chief executive officer of the oakland , calif. , savings-and-loan holding company , the high number of loans added to the company 's portfolio over the last 12 months credited for its earning asset base broadening and profit performance improving .
the executive that slackening demand for new mortgages new loan originations depressed to $ 1 billion , 30 % below the same period last year however , noted .
in savings activity , mr. sandler consumer deposits a steady increase have enjoyed throughout 1989 , and $ 11 billion topped at quarter 's end for the first time in the company 's history said .
deposit growth amounted to $ 393 million , more than double the year-ago figure .
whirlpool corp. , benton harbor , mich. , it a process environmentally harmful chlorofluorocarbons , or cfcs , that the atmosphere previously entered during in-home repair of refrigerators and freezers to recover have developed said .
the maker of home appliances the process , which the use of a multilayer plastic bag during repairs the gaseous substance to capture and transport it to a recycling center , involve is already in use at a number of its service centers , and will be available to all authorized repair centers by spring said .
earlier repairs the cfcs vented out of the home through a hose directly into the atmosphere .
cfcs is widely used as solvents , coolants and fire suppressants .
but their use have been linked to a potentially dangerous depletion of the earth 's ozone layer , and a number of companies use , or at least emission , of the substance to curtail is seeking .
whirpool `` we this process see as a small but important step toward eventual elimination of cfc use in appliance manufacture said , .
maxus energy corp. , dallas , it a new oil field discovered northeast of its previously discovered intan field in the southeast sumatra area of indonesia said .
maxus it a production test did n't run on the three discovery wells it drilled in the field , which is about 1.6 miles from the intan field , because the wells is similar to others drilled at its intan and widuri fields said .
maxus it the reserves in the field is about 10 million barrels of oil believe however , said .
the intan field reserves of 50 million barrels have estimated and the widuri field reserves of 225 million barrels have estimated .
maxus , an independent oil and gas concern , is the operator and a 56 % interest in the new field , northeast intan called own .
other interests is owned by bp petroleum development ( ses ) ltd. , c. itoh energy co. ltd. , deminex sumatra oel g.m.b . h. , hispanoil ( sumatra ) production ltd. , hudbay oil ( indonesia ) ltd. , inpex sumatra co. ltd. , lasmo sumatra ltd. , sunda shell , tcr sumat a.g. and warrior oil co .
the production-sharing contract area is held with pertamina , the indonesian state oil company .
environmental systems co. it its results is restating its reported net income for the first nine months of its fiscal year to reduce after it tax credits that already had been taken last year took discovering said .
the little rock , ark. , hazardous-waste services company the restatement its net for the nine months ended july 31 will reduce to $ 2.5 million , or 17 cents a share , from $ 3.7 million , or 26 cents a share said .
the company net of $ 2.3 million , or 15 cents a share previously reported .
the company that for financial reporting purposes last year it tax credits that will be recognized for tax purposes this year took said .
but because of confusion , it those credits took again in its results through the first nine months reporting .
jack w. forrest , environmental systems president and chief executive officer , the change the company 's effective tax rate increase to about 35 % from 20 % said .
memotec data inc. it a definitive merger agreement with isi systems inc. under which memotec isi will acquire for $ 20 ( u.s. . ) a share , or about $ 130 million , in cash and securities signed said .
in american stock exchange composite trading , isi closed up $ 3.125 at $ 18.625 .
in montreal exchange trading , memotec closed unchanged at 10.625 canadian dollars ( us$ 9.05 ) .
memotec under the agreement , isi , a braintree , mass. , provider of computer software and services to the insurance industry , will merge with a u.s. unit of memotec created for that purpose said .
memotec is a montreal-based maker of telecommunications products and provider of telecommunications and computer services .
memotec the agreement call for it a $ 20-a-share cash tender offer for all shares outstanding of isi to make said .
but it charles johnston , isi chairman and president , his 60 % stake in isi to sell to memotec upon completion of the tender offer for a combination of cash , memotec stock and debentures agreed said .
memotec the tender offer is conditioned on , among other things , holders at least 15 % of the shares outstanding , other than the shares held by mr. johnston tendering said .
isi its board management have instructed inquiries from any others interested in a bid making to accept said .
isi it can withdraw from the merger agreement with memotec if a better bid surface said .
cms energy corp. , jackson , mich. , it the purchase of its common stock have resumed under a program approved by its directors in 1987 said .
at the time of the original announcement , cms its board the purchase of as many as five million of its shares authorized said .
a spokesman 2.6 million shares have been purchased since then said .
the company it additional shares will buy `` from time to time '' in the open market or in private transactions at prevailing market prices said .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , cms energy closed down 62.5 cents , from the closing price of $ 37.375 a share on thursday , before friday 's plunge at $ 34.375 a share , .
the utility company about 82.1 million shares outstanding currently have .
morgan stanley & co. will act as the exclusive broker for the repurchase .
hughes aircraft co. , a unit of general motors corp. , it the electro-optics technology division of perkin-elmer corp to purchase agreed said .
terms of the agreement was n't disclosed .
but for the fiscal year ended july 31 , 1988 , the most recent period for which results was broken out , the perkin-elmer unit accounted for more than half the $ 145 million in sales recorded by the company 's government systems sector .
perkin-elmer , which is based in norwalk , conn. , the sale of the danbury , conn. , unit is consistent with its restructuring strategy announced in april said .
in addition electro-optical systems , to making the unit laser warning receivers also make .
these pilots that a laser weapon have been focused on them to warn is used aboard military helicopters .
hughes of los angeles the perkinelmer unit 's work efforts by its electro-optical and data systems group , which infrared sensors , military lasers and night vision equipment make complement said .
hughes it the sale to close by year end expect said .
the communications workers of america a new regional contract and all but one of the local agreements with bell atlantic corp ratified .
cwa 's new jersey commercial local , which about 2,500 service representatives and marketing employees , represent the tentative agreement rejected .
both the union and the regional telephone company they differences to resolve was working together said .
the new three-year contracts , which ones that expired aug. 5 , replace 41,000 bell atlantic employees cover .
the ratification a 23-day strike against the philadelphia-based company follow .
cwa and international brotherhood of electrical workers members meanwhile , remain on strike against nynex corp. , the new york-based regional phone company .
last week the unions and the company agreed to mediation .
the cwa 40,000 nynex workers represent and the ibew 20,000 workers represent .
for the moment , euphoria anxiety at least , have replaced on wall street .
the dow jones industrial average to close at 2657.38 , panic the world 's markets , did n't sweep jumped sharply yesterday and investors large and small friday 's dizzying 190-point plunge to accept as a sharp correction , not a calamity seemed .
among those sighing with relief john h. gutfreund , chairman of salomon brothers , who yesterday 's events to monitor took to the firm 's trading floor was .
as the rally strength gained at 3:15 p.m. , he smiled broadly , his unlit cigar brandished and stanley shopkorn , his top stock trader , slapped on the back .
at first , it seemed as if history itself might repeat .
as trading opened yesterday morning on the big board , stocks of many of the nation 's biggest companies could n't open for trading because a wave of sell orders buyers was overwhelming .
by 10:10 , the dow industrials was off 63.52 points , and the stock of ual corp. , whose troubles friday 's plunge , had kicked off still had n't opened .
but it to turn around then , as quickly as the dow had fallen , began .
it ended with a gain of 88.12 points .
by the market 's close , volume on the new york exchange more than 416 million , the fourth highest on record totaled .
the big board the huge volume handled without any obvious strain , in sharp contrast to black monday of 1987 .
but the rally to the blue-chip stocks , which had been hard hit during friday 's selling frenzy was largely confined .
overall , more big board stocks money lost than gained .
and many arbitragers , already reeling from friday 's collapse of the ual deal , was further hurt yesterday a proposed takeover of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines , when collapsed .
the dow jones transportation average 102.06 points , indeed , plunged its second-worst drop in history .
world-wide , trading was generally manageable .
the frankfurt stock exchange was hardest hit of the major markets , with blue chips there 12.8 % falling .
in london , a midday rally the market 's major index off 3.2 % , left and tokyo 's leading stock index only 1.8 % fell in surprisingly lackluster trading .
other , more thinly traded asian markets was hit harder than tokyo 's , but no free-fall declines there was .
investors big and small they valuable lessons learned since the 1987 crash say : in this age of computerized trading , huge corrections or runups in a few hours ' time must be expected .
what 's more , such short-term cataclysms is survivable and are no cause for panic selling .
stephen boesel , a major money manager for t. rowe price in baltimore , `` less panic than in 1987 there was : we had been through it once '' say , .
in somerset , wis. , adrian sween , who a supplier of nursing-home equipment own and is n't active in the stock market , agree .
`` i look at it as a ho-hum matter , '' he say .
many other factors a part played in yesterday 's comeback .
the federal reserve its willingness liquidity to provide signaled ; the interest rate on its loans to major banks inched downward early in the day .
foreign stock markets , which kicked off black monday with a huge selling spree , began off by relatively modest amounts the day .
after falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen , the dollar , fears that foreigners u.s. stocks would unload thus easing bounced back strongly to 141.8 , .
and the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that a crash was n't in store investors calm also helped .
for example , many major institutions , ready some of the blue chips they had been sharply undervalued on friday felt to buy came into work yesterday .
amid all the backslapping and signs of relief over yesterday 's events , some market professionals that nothing present in the current market system another dizzying drop such as friday 's to prevent there is still , cautioned .
`` too much complacency , there is '' money manager barry schrager say .
computers have increasingly connected securities markets world-wide , so that a buying or selling wave in one market is often passed around the globe .
investors everywhere yesterday 's opening in tokyo , the nikkei average of 225 blue-chip stocks where got off to a rocky start so nervously eyed .
the average some 600 points , or 1.7 % , plunged in the first 20 minutes of trading .
but the selling wave no conviction , had and the market first surged upward by 200 points , closing down 647 then drifted lower , .
in merrill lynch & co. 's tokyo trading room , some 40 traders and assistants sat quietly , with few orders to process .
one merrill trader `` all clients is staying '' out of the market , say .
the relative calm in tokyo little comfort to markets opening up in europe proved .
frankfurt 's opening was delayed a half hour because of a crush of sell orders .
`` the beginning was chaotic , '' nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank say
in london , also the view from the trading floor of an american securities firm , jefferies & co. , was troubling .
a computer screen 100 blue-chip stocks displaying colors each one red its price when is falling .
the screen was a sea of red .
`` i concern , see but i panic , do n't see '' j. francis palamara , a new yorker who the 15-trader office run say .
london 's blue-chip stock index an encouraging message sending to wall street turned up just before 8 a.m . new york time , .
trading when opened in new york at 9:30 a.m. edt , stocks fell sharply -- as expected .
futures markets in chicago had opened at a level the dow would fall by about 60 points suggesting .
with sell orders piled up from friday , about half the stocks in the dow could n't open on time .
by 9:45 , the industrial average 27 points had dropped .
by 10 a.m. , it was down 49 .
the dow bottom ten minutes later , hit down 63.52 points , another 2.5 % - .
but shortly before then , some of wall street 's sharpest traders they a turn sensed say , .
`` the first thing that my eye caught that was encouraging treasury bonds was off , was '' austin george , head of stock trading at t. rowe price say .
`` it that people was n't running pell-mell to the safety of bonds meant '' .
shortly after 10 a.m. , the major market index , a chicago board of trade futures contract of 20 stocks the djia , to mimic designed exploded upward .
stock traders was buoyed -- because an upturn in the mmi the recovery in stocks had also started on the tuesday following black monday .
`` the mmi have gone better , '' a trader in the london office of shearson lehman hutton shouted .
shearson 's london trading room wild went .
traders their reuters , quotron and telerate screens an ever-narrowing loss on wall street as posted shouted out .
wall street then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day .
`` rally , rally , rally , '' shearson 's andy rosen shouted .
`` this is panic buying . ''
major blue-chip stocks like philip morris , general motors and proctor & gamble the rally led .
japanese to be heavy buyers was said .
german and dutch investors reportedly loaded up on kellogg co .
traders say , corporations with share buy-back programs gains in , among other issues , alcan aluminium and mcdonald 's triggering then , kicked into high gear , .
walt disney co. , which one of the biggest sell-order imbalances had on friday and was one of seven stocks that trading halted and never reopened that day , opened late down 8.5 yesterday at 114.5 , .
traders but it 7.5 then suddenly burst upward as goldman , sachs & co. stepped in and almost every share offer , bought said .
by 10:25 , the dow cheers prompting on trading desks and exchange floors had turned up for the day , .
among big board specialists , the cry `` your offers pull '' meaning that specialists higher prices to get for their shares soon expected was -- .
`` it was bedlam on the upside , '' one big board specialist said .
this technical strength buying from wall street 's `` black boxes , '' computer programs large stock purchases to trigger during bullish periods designed spurred .
typical , batterymarch 's dean lebaron perhaps , was .
mr. lebaron , who $ 10 billion , manages `` we the trading system turned on , and it it whatever to do was programmed did '' . say ,
what stocks the computer bought , asked the money manager `` i do n't know '' say , .
not everybody money was making .
the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options was halted friday .
many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract bullish positions had friday , and the shutdown when came they was frozen with huge losses .
over the weekend , clearing firms the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning told .
`` they was absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' one chicago-based options trader said .
a test of the stock market 's rally meanwhile , came at about 2 p.m. , with the dow at 2600 , up 31 points on the day .
charles clough , a strategist at merrill lynch , bargain hunting the dow 's strength had explained up to that point and that many market professionals a drop in the dow was anticipating say .
the announcement that real estate magnate and sometime raider donald trump his offer for amr corp. was withdrawing traders to rattle moreover , might have been expected .
the rally instead , only paused for about 25 minutes and then steamed forward as institutions buying resumed .
the market closed minutes after its high for the day of reaching
across the country , many people yesterday 's events took in stride , while generally uneasy about the stock market in general remaining .
james norman , the mayor of ava , mo. say : `` i do n't invest in stocks .
i money i my hands can put on much prefer '' .
while mayor norman found monday the market 's performance reassuring , he say , he uneasy remain .
`` we half the experts one thing saying and half the other about the course of the economy have '' .
ralph holzfaster , a farmer and farm-supply store operator in ogallala , neb. , `` if anything good come out of this , it that it some of these lbos put on the skids might be '' . say of the last few days events ,
gordon fines , a money manager at ids financial services in minneapolis , `` you 're on a roller coaster , and that may last say .
the public is still cautious .
skipper 's inc. , bellevue , wash. , it a definitive merger agreement for a national pizza corp. unit the 90.6 % of skipper 's inc. it do n't own to acquire for $ 11.50 a share , or about $ 28.1 million signed said .
np acquisition co. , a national pizza unit , a tender offer for skipper 's to begin on friday , conditioned on at least two-thirds of skipper 's shares being tendered plan .
pittsburg , kan.-based national pizza the transaction will be financed under its revolving credit agreement said .
in national over-the-counter trading , skipper 's shares 50 cents rose to $ 11 .
skipper 's the merger remodeling and future growth finance will help said .
skipper 's a $ 10-a-share proposal from national pizza previously turned down and pizza hut inc. whether the purchase national pizza 's franchise agreements would violate questioned .
national pizza it its dispute with pizza hut , settled it the purchase to make allowing said .
national pizza skipper 's results a higher offer , permitting to turn around , also , began said .
for the 12 weeks ended sept. 3 , skipper 's net income of $ 361,000 , or 13 cents a share , had compared with a net loss a year earlier .
revenue was $ 19.9 million .
east germans rallied as officials honecker 's ouster reportedly sought .
in what the largest protest in the communist state 's 40-year history , was considered at least 120,000 demonstrators demands for democratic freedoms , to press marched through the southern city of leipzig opposition activists said .
police did n't intervene .
as the first of more than 1,300 east germans to flee to the west through poland trying their citizenship , renounced a west german newspaper that regional communist officials the dismissal of hard-line leader honecker demanded meanwhile , reported .
in a foreign policy speech , secretary of state baker , it was the `` legitimate right '' of the german people saying called for the reunification of germany , .
gorbachev the soviet union 's press blamed for contributing to the nation 's mounting problems .
at a meeting friday , the kremlin leader about recent articles that the possiblity of civil unrest , raised complained and the media of panic buying of goods fueling by stories about impending shortages publishing accused .
house-senate conferees a permanent smoking ban on domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on flights of less than six hours to alaska and hawaii approved .
the curbs all but a small percentage of flights , would cover and an expansion of the current ban on flights of less than two hours represent .
e. robert wallach was sentenced by a u.s. judge in new york to six years in prison and $ 250,000 fined for his racketeering conviction in the wedtech scandal .
wallach , an associate of ex-attorney general meese , guilty was found in august of $ 425,000 in illegal payoffs taking from the now-defunct defense contractor .
nasa the countdown for today 's launch of the space shuttle atlantis , resumed and a federal appeals court in washington a lawsuit by anti-nuclear groups the flight to delay because the plutonium-powered galileo space probe was aboard dismissed .
the space agency it weather or protesters the liftoff to block did n't expect said .
government sources the bush administration a ban on federal financing of research fetal tissue , using to extend is preparing said .
a temporary prohibition was imposed in march 1988 .
while anti-abortion groups is opposed to such research , scientists such tissue transplanting could be effective in diabetes treating have said .
delegates from 91 nations a ban on world ivory trade endorsed in an attempt the endangered elephant to rescue from extinction .
five african nations , they the valuable tusks selling would continue however , said .
mubarak reconciliation talks held with gadhafi at the egyptian resort of mersa metruh .
it was the libyan leader 's first trip to egypt in 16 years .
they a reduction in formalities for travel , announced but any real signs of full diplomatic ties resuming did n't show .
the egyptian president he libya would visit today the talks to resume said .
seoul and pyongyang a tentative agreement visits between families to allow on the divided korean peninsula reached .
differences remained however , between the north and south korean governments , over conditions for the exchanges .
freed black nationalists political activity resumed in south africa and to fight against apartheid , vowed fears of a possible white backlash raising .
the nation 's main white opposition party that the government 's release sunday of eight black political prisoners chaos and eventual black marxist rule bringing to the nation risked warned .
the white house `` bush is fully satisfied '' with cia director webster and the intelligence agency 's performance during the oct. 3 failed coup in panama said .
the washington post that unidentified senior administration officials was frustrated with webster 's low-profile activities during the insurrection and wanted him replaced reported .
poland 's legislature limits on automatic wage increases approved without special provisions for food price rises .
the vote a test of the solidarity-led government 's resolve to proceed with a harsh economic-restructuring program was considered .
norway 's king olav v a three-party non-socialist government installed as gro harlem brundtland 's three-year-old labor regime power relinquished .
the 19-member cabinet by prime minister jan syse , who a `` difficult situation '' acknowledged since the coalition only 62 seats in oslo 's 165-member legislature control is led .
el salvador 's government a new round of talks with the country 's leftist rebels opened in an effort a decade-long civil war to end .
a spokesman the guerrillas a cease-fire proposal would present during the negotiations in costa rica that constitutional and economic changes include said .
the state department a `` possibility '' that some nicaraguan rebels their u.s.-supplied arms was selling to salvadoran guerrillas , there was said but it was n't an organized effort insisted .
secretary of state baker about a u.n. aide who last week the contras to disband told as part of a regional peace accord separately , complained .
the department of trade and industry british retail sales volume a provisional 0.4 % rose in september from august and was up 2.2 % from september 1988 , said .
for the three months ended in september , retail sales volume was down 0.5 % from the previous three months and up 1.2 % from a year earlier .
chicago investor william farley three divisions of cluett peabody & co. to sell for about $ 600 million to bidermann s.a. , a closely held clothing maker based in paris agreed .
after the $ 1.56 billion acquisition of west point-pepperell inc. shortly completing in april , mr. farley 's holding company , farley inc. , it the sale of cluett , a leading shirt maker and one of west point-pepperell 's biggest units was considering said .
cluett units that men 's shirts make under the arrow name , socks under the gold toe name and menswear through the schoeneman division included is in the sale .
the companies the agreement is subject to bidermann 's receipt of financing and to regulatory and other approvals said .
they the sale to be concluded by the end of november is expected said .
mr. farley the sale of three of cluett 's four main divisions plus other `` anticipated '' west point-pepperell asset sales by december , a total of about $ 700 million should bring in said .
he did n't elaborate on other asset sales being considered .
mr. farley a similar pattern followed he northwest industries inc. when acquired and much of its assets then sold .
but he fruit of the loom inc. , the underwear maker he that still control and serve as chairman and chief executive kept .
cluett was an independent company until west point-pepperell it acquired for $ 375 million in cash and stock in 1986 .
in the fiscal year ended sept. 30 , 1988 , cluett operating profit of $ 37 million on sales of $ 757 million had .
bidermann clothes sell under various labels , including yves saint laurent and bill robinson for men and ralph lauren for women .
a spokesman the company sales of $ 400 million had in 1988 said .
in new york stock exchange composite trading , west point-pepperell 25 cents fell to $ 53.875 .
britain 's blue arrow plc its name to change to manpower plc and a chunk of the nearly $ 1.2 billion in good will realized in the takeover of u.s.-based manpower inc write off intend .
blue arrow chairman mitchell fromstein that the two steps may be a prelude the world 's biggest employment-services group in the u.s. to reincorporating said in an interview .
mr. fromstein the planned steps , expected within a few months , disclosed as blue arrow a 2.5 % drop in its third-quarter pretax earnings posted .
the name change and good will write-off blue arrow 's dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market solidify and a more american image give it as u.s. investors jittery about foreign stocks turn after friday 's market plunge could help .
u.s. holders more than 60 % of blue arrow now own compared with 9 % last january .
`` in the u.s. market , the recognition of the manpower name is infinitely stronger than blue arrow , '' mr. fromstein said .
the moves shareholders ' perception of blue arrow as a company in turmoil also could erase .
`` it the concept that blue arrow is a thing of the past , further reinforce '' doug arthur , an analyst at kidder peabody & co. in new york said .
the proposed changes `` all '' a lot of sense make to me , he added .
in a widely publicized boardroom coup , mr. fromstein antony berry ousted as blue arrow chief executive in january , a month after mr. berry mr. fromstein had forced out as the $ 1 million-a-year chief of milwaukee-based manpower .
mr. fromstein his control solidified in april by taking over from mr. berry as chairman .
but the blue arrow tumult is n't over yet , as the british government a disputed # 25 million ( $ 39.4 million ) loan which mr. fromstein was made under mr. berry 's direction have said is investigating .
blue arrow was able the $ 1.34 billion takeover of manpower to pull off in 1987 because different british and american accounting standards higher reported earnings largely produce for british companies .
under british rules , blue arrow was able the $ 1.15 billion in good will arising from the purchase to write off at once .
blue arrow as a u.s.-based company , the good will to amortize over as many as 40 years , a continuing drag on reported earnings creating would have .
good will is the excess of cost of an acquired firm , operating unit or assets over the current or fair market value of those assets .
but with so many shares now held in the u.s. , blue arrow two ways , report its earnings based on both u.k. and u.s. accounting standards .
`` our balance sheets look like they came from alice 's wonderland , '' mr. fromstein said .
the british version `` a handful of pounds of net worth '' show following the 1987 write-off of good will , while the american version `` $ 1 billion of net worth '' reflect because almost none of -lcb- the good will -rcb- have been written off .
mr. fromstein he some of the good will left on blue arrow 's u.s. books to eradicate in one fell swoop , hope said but how much would n't specify .
people close to blue arrow the write-down a sizable chunk , would represent with executives prior management the extent of manpower 's good will overstated claiming suggested .
along with the return to the manpower name , that move , the company 's prospects could bolster during possibly difficult times for temporary help .
kidder peabody 's mr. arthur the number of u.s. temporary workers about 1 % fell in the 12 months ending aug. 31 , after nearly 3.5 % sliding in july , said .
blue arrow the pretax profit drop in the quarter ended july 31 blamed partly on slower earnings growth of non-manpower units in britain .
pretax profit overall , slid to # 18.49 million in the quarter from # 18.98 million a year earlier .
richard g. sim , the man credited with applied power inc. transforming from an underachiever into a feisty player in the global market for hydraulic tools , a similar turnaround at the company 's latest acquisition , barry wright corp to guide hope .
the 45-year-old former general electric co. executive it will be easier this time figure .
but while the acquisition , applauding analysts , applied 's chief executive a tough challenge in the two companies integrating face say .
barry wright , acquired by applied for $ 147 million , computer-room equipment and vibration-control systems make .
the watertown , mass. , company 's sales have been dormant and its profits have dropped .
last year 's earnings of $ 1.3 million , including $ 815,000 from a restructuring gain , was far below the year-earlier $ 8.4 million .
besides barry wright 's sales , which were $ 201.7 million in 1988 , spurring mr. sim its costs and product line must pare .
f. john mirek , an analyst at blunt ellis loewi in milwaukee `` the question it barry wright to take a contribution , to make how long be going is '' say .
the answer whether applied the ambitious goals set by mr. sim to reach continues determine will help .
the butler , wis. , manufacturer public went at $ 15.75 a share in august 1987 , and then mr. sim 's goal was a $ 29 per-share price by 1992 .
strong earnings growth that price achieve far ahead of schedule , in august 1988 helped .
the stock around $ 25 a share trading last week and closing yesterday at $ 23.00 in national over-the-counter trading have since softened , .
but mr. sim a fresh target of $ 50 a share have set by the end of
robert t. foote , applied 's chief financial officer , say that goal , reaching `` efficient reinvestment '' of cash by applied and continuation of its healthy 19 % rate of return on operating capital will require .
in barry wright , mr. sim a situation `` very similar '' to the one he faced he applied when joined as president and chief operating officer in 1985 see .
applied , then a closely held company , was stagnating under the management of its controlling family .
while profitable , `` it was n't growing and a satisfactory return on invested capital , was n't providing '' he say .
mr. sim is confident that the drive certain niche markets to dominate will work at barry wright as it has at applied .
he an `` evangelical '' fervor a corporate culture that managers who produce reward and decision-making where is shared to develop also profess .
mr. sim the new unit 's operations `` fundamentally sound '' consider and that barry wright has been fairly successful in into markets that larger competitors have n't interested moving add .
mr. sim `` with a little patience , these businesses will perform very satisfactorily , '' say .
within about six months , `` things will be moving in the right direction , '' he predict .
mr. sim it will be easier barry wright to turn around since he be now in the driver 's seat figure .
he when came to applied , `` i the power to execute as i do today , did n't have '' he say .
he chief executive officer of applied was named in 1986 and chairman became last november .
at applied , mr. sim growth set as his first objective .
he in an offering that about $ 12.6 million , netted applied which the company 's acquisition program launch helped the company public took .
sales climbed to an estimated $ 245 million in fiscal 1989 , ended aug. 31 , from $ 99.9 million in fiscal 1985 .
the company that earnings , which have marched steadily upward in recent years , about $ 20.8 million , or $ 1.58 a share , reached up from $ 15.2 million in fiscal 1988 and $ 3.9 million in 1985 in the fiscal year just ended , expect .
