legislation that capital , the new savings-and-loan bailout agency how can raise another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts creating would restrict influential members of the house ways and means committee introduced .
the resolution trust corp. the bill , chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill. ) , whose backers include would prevent from temporary working capital raising by an rtc-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget having .
the rtc to restrict to treasury borrowings only , the bill intend unless specific congressional authorization the agency receive .
`` such agency ` self-help ' borrowing is unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct treasury borrowing , '' rep. fortney stark ( d. , calif. ) , the bill 's chief sponsor said .
$ 30 billion raising from debt issued by the newly created rtc the complex financing plan in the s&l bailout law include .
this financing system was created in the new law in order the bailout spending to keep from the budget deficit swelling .
another $ 20 billion through treasury bonds , which lower interest rates pay would be raised .
but `` working '' capital the bad assets of thrifts that is sold , to maintain until the assets can be sold separately the rtc also require .
the total spending for the bailout leaving at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years that debt would be paid off as the assets is sold , .
`` it be a problem that to be resolved , clearly have '' david cooke , executive director of the rtc said .
roughly $ 19 billion 34 insolvent s&ls , selling the agency have already spent and it is likely 600 to sell or merge by the time the bailout conclude .
absent other working capital , he said , other thrift resolutions to delay until cash could be raised by the bad assets selling the rtc would be forced .
`` to wait until we have collected on those assets before we can move forward , we would have '' he said .
the fight the complicated language in the huge new law have muddied .
the rtc up to $ 5 billion to borrow from the treasury at any time the law do allow .
$ 50 billion , the rtc 's total obligations may not exceed it moreover , say but that figure is derived after notes and other debt , including and the market value of the assets the rtc hold subtracting from it .
but more public debt , congress did n't anticipate or intend opponents of the rtc 's working-capital plan , say and the rtc oversight board has been remiss in congress informed not keeping rep. charles schumer ( d. , n.y . ) said .
`` that secrecy lead to a proposal like the one from ways and means , which sort of draconian , seems to me '' he said .
`` a price of prior consultation on the hill to pay to have the rtc is going if that kind of flexibility they want '' .
a hearing on the bill the ways and means committee will hold next tuesday .
we 're about to see if advertising work .
new ads a familiar message : investing , keep on the market be just fine trumpeting a few big brokerage firms hard on the heels of friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that be followed , is rolling out .
clients to keep from the market , fleeing as individual investors did in droves after the crash in october their mission is
just days after the 1987 crash , ads major brokerage firms rushed out investors to calm .
this time around , they be moving even faster .
a new television commercial painewebber inc. filmed at 4 p.m. edt yesterday and it had on the air by last night .
new ads fidelity investments placed in newspapers yesterday , and another new ad appearing today wrote .
by yesterday afternoon new tv ads shearson lehman hutton inc. had already written .
them running during tomorrow night 's world series broadcast it considered but not to decided the market when recovered yesterday .
potential new ad strategies other brokerage firms , including merrill lynch & co. , was plotting out .
a lesson the brokerage firms learned the last time around , the phone lines frightened investors when flooded and the market fled in a panic .
this time , the firms was ready .
for example , ads fidelity , prepared several months ago in case of a market plunge .
the market when went into its free fall friday afternoon , full pages in the monday editions of half a dozen newspapers the investment firm ordered .
fidelity 's automated 800-number the ads touted beneath the huge headline , `` fidelity is ready for your call '' .
about double the usual volume of calls the 800-line , which already was operating but which about , many clients did n't know received over the weekend a fidelity spokesman say .
`` a lot of investor confidence come from the fact that they can speak to us , '' he say .
to think ahead of time about it we had '' .
a step further , today 's fidelity ad go investors to stay in the market or even to plunge in with fidelity encouraging .
underneath the headline `` diversification , '' `` based on the events of the past week , them protect against the market 's volatility to help their portfolios is balanced to know all investors need '' it counsel , .
a few diversified fidelity funds to plug by name it go on .
also painewebber was able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash .
in the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , commercials taping in-house , its timing ultimately getting down fast enough a commercial to tape after the market closed and it rush on the air that night the brokerage firm began .
an arrangement with cable news network under which its last-minute creations to air cnn would agree it also negotiated .
mary farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , particularly bullish sounding the new painewebber commercial , created with ad agency saatchi & saatchi co. , feature .
taped as the market just closed yesterday , ms. farrell advising , `` the market we view here as going through a relatively normal cycle it offer ... .
that the stock market is still the place to be for long-term appreciation to feel we continue '' .
to appear three times on cnn last night the spot was scheduled .
an even harder sell , specific stocks recommending painewebber considered .
it instead , settled on the clients who are its lifeline that money to keep in the market just urging .
`` which the prices just drive down further , the market go down and everything , dump to see the worst thing that anyone can do is we be saying '' john lampe , painewebber 's director of advertising say .
`` if it you owned and it liked friday , the true value have n't changed '' .
`` this is n't 1987 revisited '' he add , .
with the market fluctuating and then closing up more than 88 points yesterday , their approach to constantly revise investment firms had .
at shearson lehman , potential new commercials executives created friday night and throughout the weekend , to regroup yesterday afternoon then had .
one of shearson 's easy-to-film , black-and-white `` we where stand '' commercials , which have been running occasionally in response to news events since 1985 to make the plan had been .
the ad would have run during the world series tomorrow , the debut commercial of shearson 's new ad campaign , `` leadership by example '' replacing .
but in a meeting after the market closed yesterday , not to go ahead with the stock-market ad shearson executives decided .
`` to be said anything need we do n't think at this point .
'' to be straightening out the market seem ; a wait-and-see attitude , we be taking cathleen b. stewart , executive vice president of marketing say .
in any case , new ads to create the brokerage firms is clearly moving faster than they did in the fall of 1987 .
but to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective it remain .
in 1987 , despite a barrage of ads from most of the major investment firms , individuals ran en masse from the market .
their hardest the firms now must try that advertising can work this time around to prove .
an agreement in principle a majority stake in arnold advertising , a small boston shop to acquire edward eskandarian , former chairman of della femina , mcnamee wcrs/boston , reached .
terms was n't disclosed .
chairman and chief executive of arnold mr. eskandarian , who his della femina post resigned in september , become .
the title of president john verret , the agency 's president and chief executive , will retain .
arnold its estimated $ 4 million cooperative ad account for the hartford , conn. , area to handle mcdonald 's corp. , oak brook , ill. , separately , named .
that account had been handled by della femina , mcnamee wcrs .
their clout to use the nation 's education crisis solve to help a 142-page ad supplement to business week 's special `` corporate '' elite issue call on business leaders .
ads from 52 corporate advertisers the supplement , the largest ever for the magazine , include and kicks off a two-year business week initiative on education .
10 % of the gross revenues from the supplement the magazine will distribute as grants to innovative teachers .
it be what 1 ) explain why we is like , well , ourselves rather than bo jackson ; 2 ) that it be possible in a lake that two feet deep average to drown cautions ; and 3 ) that 1,118 publishable rock 'n' roll tunes 10,000 monkeys placed before 10,000 pianos would produce predicts .
baseball , that game of the long haul , is the quintessential sport of the mean , and the mean ol' law caught up with the san francisco giants in the world series last weekend .
the team that runs dumped by the bushel on the chicago cubs in the national league playoffs was held to just one in two games by the home-team oakland a 's , the gang that had been done similarly unto by the los angeles dodgers and orel hershiser in last year 's tournament .
much of the damage by a 's who some catching up to do had morever , was accomplished .
in game two , on a cool sunday evening in this land of perpetual autumn , a lot of the catching up was done by the a 's catcher , terry steinbach .
a 2-0 pitch from rick reuschel he hit into the left-field stands in inning four his team 's lead to stretch from 2-1 to a decisive 5-1 , it where stayed .
so what if just seven home runs steinbach had struck in 130 regular-season games , and batted in the seventh position of the a 's lineup .
`` if your pitch , you get and a good swing , take anything can happen , '' he later remarked .
three hits two more than he 'd had in the five-game dodger series in which he 'd gone 1-for-17 mark mcgwire , the big , red-haired oakland first baseman , had in four at bats , .
seven of their team 's 11 hits the a-men nos. 6 through 9 , a.k.a. the `` bottom of the order , '' batting got and four of its runs scored in a 5-0 decision .
the giants right-hander dave stewart held to five hits to account for the zero on the other side of the saturday ledger .
some evening up coming , he may have that he was the a 's winningest pitcher during its american league campaign with a 21-9 mark , plus two wins over toronto in the playoffs , indicates but with the way his split-fingered fastball is behaving , that might not be this week .
the same goes for mike moore , another veteran who early struggles overcame but a run and four hits to permit the giants in seven innings in sunday 's contest .
`` a better split-finger than the guy before , every guy they put out there had '' giant manager roger craig marveled .
he be an ex-hurler who 's one of the leading gurus of the fashionable delivery , which look like a fastball until it dive beneath the lunging bat .
that the a 's go up two games to none in the best-of-seven fest into san francisco 's candlestick park tonight the upshot of the downshoot is .
that it all to win about three of four clubs ( 29 of 39 ) that 2-0 series leads took went on the stat to reckon here with say .
that be not an average giant rooters to soothe .
that the home fans in this series of the subway bart ( that be a better name for a public conveyance than `` desire , '' you do n't think ? ) called would have been ecstatic over the proceedings , one might think but them they observe in relative calm .
partisans of the two combatants sat side by side in the 49,000-plus seats of oakland coliseum , and while their favorites they cheered and the opposition , booed hostilities advanced no further , at least as far as i could see .
caps the colors and emblems of both teams bearing wearing a few folks even showed up .
`` i 'm for the giants today , but because they only lost yesterday .
'em both i love .
'' the only thing i be rooting for is for seven games , the series to go david williams , a sacramento septuagenarian , said at the coliseum before sunday 's go .
it be the latter , to believe i choose although it probably spring from the fact that just about everyone out here , including the a 's and giants , is originally from somewhere else .
it suffice that if this was a new york yankees-mets series , or one between the chicago cubs and white sox ( hey , it be possible ) , uniformed police you 'd need in every other seat opposing fans , to separate and their bonnets only the suicidal would bifurcate to say .
a lot of heroes to root for the a 's anyway , gave you .
in the opening game , besides steinbach and stewart , walt weiss , a twiggy-looking , second-year shortstop who a couple months of the season had lost to knee surgery there was .
he was flawless afield ( ditto in game two ) , a runner moved along in the a 's three-run second inning , and homered for his team 's final tally .
such his reputation among the east bay bashers is that his first career home run he when hit last season , the ball to turn over to him in return for an autograph the fan who it caught agreed .
an a 's co-hero of the second game was rickey henderson , who the hot side of the hot-cold equation exemplify .
toronto he smoked in the playoffs with six hits , seven walks and eight stolen bases in 22 at bats , and that continued by going 3-for-3 at the plate sunday , along with walking , a base stealing and a run scoring .
`` when you 're in the groove , every ball you see tremendously , '' he lectured .
the cold guys in the set was will clark , kevin mitchell and matt williams , the giants ' 3-4-5 hitters .
they combined for 25 hits , six home runs and 24 runs batted in in the five games against the cubs .
a collective 5-for-24 they went here , with zero homers and ribbies .
`` i believe in the law of averages , '' san francisco batting coach dusty baker declared after game two .
`` a so-so hitter who 's hot come up for the other side i 'd rather see than a good hitter who 's cold '' .
but no prediction about good times when would return to his side the old dodger slugger wisely offered .
`` it when go , it you when 'll get back , you never know '' he said .
`` that be baseball .
a 10 % drop in third-quarter net income , ncr corp. reported intense competition that its gross profit margins to dip caused citing .
roughly what analysts had expected net income for the quarter fell to $ 93.1 million from $ 103.1 million , .
but only 2 % per-share profit dropped to $ 1.23 a share from $ 1.26 a share , as its stock buy-back plan the company continued .
average shares outstanding dropped to 75.8 million from 82.1 million .
1 % revenue fell to $ 1.39 billion from $ 1.41 billion .
`` its fourth-quarter performance the negative effect of a stronger u.s. dollar will adversely affect '' and `` difficult 1988 results it to better make '' the computer maker , which more than half its goods sell outside the u.s. , also said .
a world-wide softening of the computer markets reflecting revenue declined both in the u.s. and overseas , ncr said .
`` good gains '' orders in the u.s. showed during the latest quarter the company , however , said .
those gains analysts estimate at 12 % to 13 % , a good part of it coming from large orders placed by a few of ncr 's major customers .
in addition to a general slowing of the computer industry , ncr , which automated teller machines and computerized cash registers , sell is also affected by the retail and financial sectors , `` areas of the economy that have generally not been robust , '' sanjiv g. hingorani , an analyst for salomon brothers inc note .
the current quarter 's results , these factors , combined with a strong dollar , should negatively affect ncr said .
in the year-earlier fourth quarter , profit of $ 149.6 million , or $ 1.85 a share , ncr had on revenue of $ 1.8 billion .
his full-year estimates for 1989 he lowered to $ 5.35 a share from $ 5.50 a share mr. hingorani said .
revenue projections was slashed to $ 6.03 billion from $ 6.20 billion .
last year , net income of $ 439.3 million , or $ 5.33 a share , ncr had on $ 5.99 billion in revenue .
for the nine months , 9 % the company 's earnings fell to $ 264.6 million , or $ 3.40 a share , from $ 289.7 million , or $ 3.49 a share .
1 % revenues declined to $ 4.17 billion from $ 4.19 billion .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , 75 cents ncr shares fell to close at $ 57 .
your sept. 19 article `` analysts ' pay wall street firms link to performance , '' concerning that wall street is finally tuning in to the hard , cold facts of the real working world i be delighted .
if the firms is serious , the practice however , why limit to the poor , maligned analysts whose ability to see into the future is fragile at best ?
the same harsh standards why not extend to the sales force , and a base salary with annual bonus based on how much money they made for their clients during the year pay brokers ?
a lot of account-churning , that should stop and a stock market driven only by professional concern , careful thought and good sense produce .
steve clark , a shearson lehman hutton inc. trader , reported for work at 5 a.m. , two and a half hours before the usual monday morning strategy meeting .
at jefferies & co. , the office j. francis palamara did n't reach until 5:30 a.m. , but then he had been up most of the night at home .
`` calls i had all night long from the states , '' he said .
`` every hour -- 1:30 , 2:30 , 3:30 , 4:30 i was woken up .
people is looking for possible opportunities to buy , but their chin to stick out nobody want '' .
for many of london 's securities traders , it was a day that started nervously in the small hours .
by lunchtime , the selling was at near-panic fever .
but as the day ended in a frantic wall street-inspired rally , a sigh of relief the city breathed .
so it went yesterday in the trading rooms of london 's financial district .
in the wake of wall street 's plunge last friday , especially vulnerable the london market was considered .
and before the opening of trading here yesterday , all eyes was on early trading in tokyo for a clue as how widespread the fallout to might be .
by the time trading officially got under way at 9 a.m. , the news from asia was in .
and mixed signals it left for london .
tokyo stocks closed off a significant but less-than-alarming 1.8 % on thin volume ; 6.5 % hong kong stocks declined in orderly trading .
at jefferies ' trading room on finsbury circus , a stately circle at the edge of the financial district , the london market 's major barometer -- the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index desktop computer screens displayed .
falling stocks red figures on the screens indicated ; blue figures , rising stocks .
the blues , the reds right away , outnumbered 80 to 20 , as the index opened off 157.1 points , or 7 % at 2076.8 , .
`` concern , i see but any panic , i do n't see '' mr. palamara , a big , good-humored new york native who the 15-trader office run said .
it the jefferies office , a branch of the los angeles-based firm , played conservatively , risk to avoid seeking .
`` this is not the sort of market a big position to have in , '' david smith , who trading in all non-u.s. stocks head said .
`` a very tight book to run we tend '' .
most of its energies buyers and sellers , to match trying jefferies spent in the morning and many buyers there was n't .
`` all the takeover stocks -- scottish & newcastle , b.a.t , drg -- is getting pretty well pasted this morning , '' mr. smith said .
a 7,500-share `` sell '' order for scottish & newcastle seconds later , came in .
for the third time in 15 minutes , the no-smoking area a trader next to mr. smith left a cigarette to have .
on the screens , only two forlorn blue figures remained , but a few points the index had recovered and was off about 140 .
`` because tokyo did n't collapse , a little stock , 's pick up let '' mr. smith said .
7,500 shares of reuters he targeted and a button punched other dealers ' price quotes to call up on his screen .
the best price the vivid yellow figures showed at 845 pence , ( $ 13.27 ) and feelers putting out mr. smith 's traders started .
but a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling , the market sensed and the quotes immediately jumped to 850 pence .
`` to buy , i when want they run from you -- their prices , changing they keep '' mr. smith said .
`` it be very frustrating . ''
his search for the reuters shares he temporarily abandoned .
by this time , it was 4:30 a.m. in new york , and a call from a new york customer an opinion on the british stock market , which troubles of its own had been having even before friday 's new york market break wanting mr. smith fielded .
`` fundamentally dangerous ... , '' mr. smith said , almost in a whisper , `` ... . fundamentally weak ... fairly vulnerable still ... extremely dangerously poised ...
we be in for a lot of turbulence ... . ''
he was right .
by midday , the london market was in full retreat .
`` it be falling like a stone , '' danny linger , a pit trader who was standing outside the london international financial futures exchange said .
only half the usual lunchtime crowd gathered at the tony corney & barrow wine bar on old broad street nearby .
conversation was subdued as the latest market statistics most patrons watched on television .
at 12:49 p.m. , its low , 2029.7 , off 204.2 points the index hit .
`` the limit france opened down , off at least 10 % if the index , you could calculate which you could n't , '' mr. clark , the shearson trader , said early in the afternoon .
`` spain is down 10 % and suspended , sweden be down 8 % , norway 11 % .
this market have been very badly damaged '' .
as 2:30 p.m. -- wall street 's opening time -- neared , bets on the new york market how low would open shearson traders and salesmen traded .
in the center of the trading floor , chief trader roger streeter and two colleagues scrambled as soon as the new york market opened -- more than 60 points plummeting in the first few minutes for the telephones .
an opportunity created by the sell-off they saw .
as american depositary receipts in jaguar plc , wall street traders dumped them mr. streeter and trader sam ruiz bought to resell in the u.k .
ford motor co. or general motors corp. to bid for jaguar investors here still expect .
after about 45 minutes , the u.s. markets suddenly , rallied .
`` better , the mmi have gone '' one trader shouted at about 3:15 london time , as a turnabout the u.s. major markets index contract suddenly indicated .
as wall street strengthened , wild the london trading room went .
traders shouted as an ever-narrowing loss on wall street their screens posted .
wall street then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day .
`` rally ! rally ! rally ! '' shearson trader andy rosen , shouted more jaguar shares selling .
`` this is panic buying ! ''
as the london market rallied , whether the weekend of worrying and jitters had been worth it some wondered .
the london index closed off 70.5 , or about 3.3 % at 2163.4 , its high for the day , .
ambassador paul nitze 's statement ( notable & quotable , sept. 20 ) , `` if a million people working for you , you have every bad thing that one chance in a million of going wrong have will go wrong at least once a year , '' is a pretty negative way of looking at things .
is n't it just as fair that if a million people working for you , you have every good thing that one chance in a million of going right have will go right at least once a year to say ?
a bill that authority leveraged buy-outs of major u.s. airlines to review and approve would give the transportation secretary the house aviation subcommittee approved .
quick action on the legislation , introduced wednesday and approved by the subcommittee on a voice vote yesterday the collapsed plan ual corp. , parent of united airlines , to acquire spurred .
to be taken up by the public works and transportation committee tomorrow , the bill is expected and a floor vote by next week will be urged .
criticism from the bush administration and a parting shot from financier donald trump , who yesterday his takeover bid for amr corp. , the parent of american airlines withdrew the measure drew .
in a letter to subcommittee chairman james oberstar ( d. , minn. ) , the bill mr. trump criticized as an explicit effort his bid for amr , to thwart and it contributed to the collapse of the deal said .
a letter the administration 's opposition to the bill `` in its present form '' to express elaine chao , deputy transportation secretary , also sent .
mr. trump 's allegations rep. oberstar brushed off as an `` excuse for his own deal failing '' .
`` wiggle room '' there is in the administration 's position the fact that the other letter had n't come from transportation secretary samuel skinner indicated he also said .
that the legislation was n't a response to any particular market situation mr. oberstar and other committee members repeatedly stressed .
but the ual and amr examples they cited as reasons this legislation to enact to move quickly .
the withdrawal of the trump bid for amr is n't likely efforts the legislation to push to deflate aides both in the house and senate said .
`` it be still on the fast track and it , to do we still want '' one senate aide said .
the bill is aimed at the concern that costly safety measures an airline might sacrifice the debt incurred in a leveraged buy-out to pay off addressing .
clearly established authority to block mergers , the transportation secretary currently , do n't have but the drastic step of the operating certificate of any carrier unfit the official consider revoking can take .
the bill supporters of the legislation view as an effort stability and certainty to add to the airline-acquisition process , and the safety and fitness of the industry to preserve .
in general , a 30-day review period the bill would give the transportation department before 15 % or more of the voting stock of a major u.s. air carrier could be acquired .
the transportation secretary the acquiring party to notify and all information relevant the intent of the acquisition to determining to provide it also would require .
the secretary a buy-out to reject if sufficient information have n't been provided , or if the buy-out is likely the carrier to weaken financially , result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets , or control give to a foreign interest the bill would allow .
if more information is needed , authority the review period to extend 20 days the secretary would have .
support for the bill all the witnesses , both congressmen and industry experts , expressed in order profiteers to prevent from cashing in on airline profits at the expense of safe , cost-effective service .
but several committee members disapproved , mr. trump 's claim that the failure of the ual deal and the stock-market plunge the threat of regulation caused some backing .
that large airlines would be prohibited from themselves divesting of smaller entities and independent spin-off companies producing one of the major concerns expressed by the dissenters was .
in a possible prelude to the resumption of talks between boeing co. and striking machinists union members , representatives of the two sides will meet with him tomorrow a federal mediator said .
`` it could be a long meeting or it could be a short one , '' doug hammond , the mediator , who the agreement to meet a first step toward a resumption of negotiations called said .
`` that talks is scheduled again we be encouraged but beyond that , no expression of expectations , we have made '' a boeing spokesman said .
a three-year contract offer that a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus some bonuses would have provided the machinists union have rejected .
currently , average pay for machinists is $ 13.39 an hour , boeing said .
now in its 13th day , about 55,000 machinists the strike have idled and delivery of some jetliners to delay has started .
with a strike fund of about $ 100 million , it was prepared for a long strike the union had said .
after the third week on strike , $ 100 a week receiving from the fund union members will begin .
work at boeing continue with the lines supervisors and other non-striking personnel manning .
and at the company 's wichita , kan. , plant , about 2,400 of the 11,700 machinists still are working , boeing said .
under kansas right-to-work laws , workers to be union members contracts can not require .
how many employees is working at its giant renton , wash. , plant to say boeing have declined .
union officials could n't be reached for comment .
a tender offer for the computer printer maker 's common stock to launch it intend dpc acquisition partners , a hostile suitor for dataproducts corp. , said .
preliminary materials to file with the securities and exchange commission a shareholder solicitation dataproducts ' board to oust regarding it plan dpc , a group led by the new york investment firm crescott inc. , also said .
a 7.8 % stake in dataproducts dpc hold and a $ 15-a-share bid for the company made in may , but the $ 283.7 million proposal unacceptable dataproducts management considered .
to elaborate on the group 's new plan a dpc spokesman declined .
in american stock exchange composite trading yesterday , 62.5 cents dataproducts shares jumped to close at $ 9.375 .
a restructuring plan dataproducts , which a buyer had been seeking for several months , announced in september and itself took off the auction block .
plans to split into three sectors , to phase out domestic printer manufacturing operations and its new england subsidiary to sell the company 's restructuring include .
as part of the plan , a pact $ 63 million of its real estate holdings to sell to trizec properties inc. , a unit of canada 's trizec corp dataproducts announced .
`` the company is at a loss dpc 's intentions to understand '' jack davis , dataproducts ' president , chairman and chief executive officer , said .
today 's announcement `` opportunistic and disruptive '' he called and to proceed with its restructuring the company intend said .
share prices plummeted across europe yesterday in response to friday 's new york sell-off , but a late comeback some issues staged after wall street opened without another rout .
further reason for optimism european investors have today , after the u.s. rebound .
the frankfurt stock exchange , which closed before the new york exchanges opened , was the hardest hit of the major european markets , with 12.8 % the dax index dropping .
in london , prices plummeted in early trading and were off as much as 9 % before strong to close down only 3.2 % coming back after the new york opening .
`` in my view , the stock market will stabilize relatively quickly west german economics minister helmut haussmann said , .
there may be one or other psychological or technical reactions , but they is n't based on fundamentals .
the economy of west germany and the ec -lcb- european community -rcb- is highly stable . ''
paris , which has been the center of speculation fever in recent weeks , also was hard hit .
share prices fell in milan , amsterdam , zurich , madrid and stockholm .
prices in brussels , trading , a computer breakdown where disrupted also tumbled .
12.8 % , a one-day record , the summer 's gains wiping out the dax index of 30 west german blue chips plunged .
the index closed down 203.56 points at 1385.72 , .
by comparison , on black monday , 9.4 % , the new index two years ago would have dropped according to a projection by the exchange .
investors may have reacted so strongly to friday 's u.s. stock market loss because vivid memories of the frankfurt exchange 's 35 % of its value losing in the 1987 crash and its wake they had .
this time , many small investors however , may have been hurt by acting so swiftly .
`` they all went in the wrong direction , '' andreas insam , an investment adviser for the bank in liechtenstein 's frankfurt branch said .
clients selected west german blue chips to buy after they fell by about 10 % he told he said .
after 30 minutes the opening was delayed because of the crush of sell orders , 75 minutes frankfurt 's normal two-hour trading session was extended the heavy volume to handle .
`` the beginning was chaotic , '' nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank ag said .
`` three-quarters of an hour it took before a reading on the market to get enough prices could be worked out '' .
institutional investors and bankers , far eastern markets , watching many of whom spent the night before in their offices was cautiously optimistic after the mild 1.8 % decline in tokyo stock prices .
`` everybody was still confident , including most institutional investors .
'' that is a little everybody why was surprised by the storm of sell orders from small private investors , norbert braeuer , a senior trader for hessische landesbank said .
lower-priced shares picking up some big institutions , including banks , began late yesterday , but what would happen in new york to see before acting most investors wanted .
but if to stabilize , wall street even continue a swift recovery for the frankfurt exchange , which signs of weakness already was showing after the dax had slipped from a 1989 high of 1657.61 on sept. 8 the latest blow to investor confidence could inhibit analysts here say .
a 16.3 % drop for mannesmann ag and dresdner bank ag 's 9.6 % decline was especially problematic for their respective boards , whose plans for major rights issues in november could now be in jeopardy .
last month 1.2 billion marks ( $ 642.2 million ) to raise by four million shares issuing at 300 marks each it hoped dresdner bank said .
dresdner 's share price yesterday 's market yet cropped by 33 marks to 309 marks a share , little incentive for investors to subscribe to the standing price unless the market recover quickly leaving .
headed toward a record drop at midday , two-thirds of its losses the london stock market recouped in the wake of new york 's early rally .
the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index closed off 70.5 points , at 2163.4 , its high for the day , after 204.2 points having plunged at 12:49 p.m .
it was big institutions such as norwich union insurance group , scottish amicable investment managers and standard life assurance co. that the rally spearheaded .
attracted by low prices and encouraged by new york 's performance , equities they scooped up across the board .
volume was 959.3 million shares , more than triple recent levels .
a parachute late buying gave the paris bourse after its free fall early in the day .
the cac general index ended down 5.4 % at 523.6 , a drop of 29.6 points from friday .
`` a volatility in the market that i have never seen before , there was '' michel vigier , a partner in brokerage firm cholet dupont said .
`` wall street when turned around shortly after the opening , panic buying there was in paris '' .
that as that wall street was moving up , the news spread their line traders who sell orders to place had called changed in mid-conversation , buys ordering instead brokers said .
trading was driven primarily by small investors and speculators , with large institutions waiting on the sidelines until late in the day .
wall street when turned , the market , the big boys however , entered looking for bargains .
j.p. morgan & co. swung to a loss in the third quarter , while net income more than doubled , ncnb corp. reported and 10 % security pacific corp. net rose .
as expected , a $ 1.82 billion net loss for the quarter , j.p. morgan , posted the new york bank 's decision last month $ 2 billion to add to reserves for losses on loans to less-developed countries reflecting .
the parent of morgan guaranty trust co. the reserve addition among a few major u.s. banks that nearly all their medium and long-term portfolios to less-developed countries have covered with reserves placed .
$ 9.92 a share the latest quarter 's loss equal .
in the year-earlier quarter , $ 233.6 million , or $ 1.25 a share morgan earned .
the results `` mildly disappointing '' george m. salem , analyst at prudential-bache securities inc. , called .
the $ 2 billion provision excluding and allowing for the taxes morgan paid , earnings was about 65 cents a share , mr. salem said .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , $ 1.50 a share morgan climbed to $ 44.125 .
27 % net interest income sank in the quarter to $ 254 million from $ 347 million .
the interest rate on short-term funds , which longer-term loans to customers , to finance banks borrow was `` sharply higher , '' morgan said .
$ 2 million of interest payments on its medium and long-term brazilian loans morgan received ; interest , they had been accruing net interest income would have been $ 35 million higher in the quarter , morgan said .
classified as non-accruing , $ 10 million of interest income costing the bank in the third period such loans to argentina also remain .
12 % income from sources other than interest climbed to $ 414 million , higher corporate-finance and other fees and gains on sales of investment securities reflecting .
`` these increases was partly offset '' by lower trading-related income , the bank said .
16 % non-interest expenses grew to $ 496 million .
ncnb corp. 's net income more than doubled in the period , largely because of continued strong performance by the bank 's texas operations .
earnings rose to $ 143.6 million , or $ 1.45 a share , from $ 58.9 million , or 69 cents a share , a year earlier the charlotte , n.c. , company said .
a gain of $ 56.1 million , or 59 cents a share , related to the purchase of the remaining 51 % of ncnb texas national bank from the federal deposit insurance corp the latest quarter included .
the strong performance , however , contrasted with an unexpectedly large increase in the size of ncnb 's problem loans , particularly in the southeast .
in the third quarter , nonperforming assets jumped to $ 474.1 million , or 1.43 % of net loans and leases , from $ 232.8 million , or 1.13 % in the second quarter .
$ 230.8 million , or 1.27 % nonperformers totaled in the year-ago third quarter .
a $ 33 million loan , which `` to be fully repaid early in the fourth quarter , with no loss , it expect '' ncnb said included is in the increase in the most recent quarter .
strong loan growth of 17 % in ncnb 's southeast operations , as well as a 28 % growth in deposits resulting from an aggressive marketing campaign the deterioration in credit quality offset .
ncnb 's net interest margin in the southeast squeeze to 3.38 % from 3.80 % a year earlier the higher rates paid on deposits also helped .
in big board composite trading yesterday , $ 3.50 a share , ncnb jumped to $ 51 .
results was released after the market closed .
$ 76.9 million ncnb texas national , formed from the remnants of of the failed first republicbank corp. of dallas , contributed to ncnb 's bottom line in the third quarter .
100 % of earnings of the texas operation since aug. 1 its third-quarter results reflect ncnb said .
some $ 1.9 billion in new capital ncnb raised during the quarter the ncnb texas purchase , to complete and several small failed thrifts to acquire its regional franchise to fill out .
last week , both freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , and university federal savings association of san antonio , texas , it purchased for $ 169.4 million the banking company said .
in the first nine months , 65 % ncnb 's net income climbed to $ 310.9 million , or $ 3.30 a share , from $ 188.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share , a year earlier .
security pacific 's earnings growth slowed in the third quarter , but the los angeles bank holding company was still able a 10 % increase in net income to post because of robust growth in residential real-estate and consumer loans .
a 33 % increase in real estate loans ( mainly residential ) , and a 19 % rise in consumer loans reflecting the gain resulted mainly from a $ 54 million increase in net interest income , the company said .
some low-yielding assets such as inter-bank loans , which to decrease was allowed these high-yielding loans in effect replaced .
as a result , only 13 basis points , a more mild decrease than some major banks outside california , which more sluggish earnings have been reporting security pacific 's net interest margin fell .
security pacific shares closed down 37.5 cents , at $ 44.625 , in big board composite trading .
a 0.89 % return on assets for security pacific , and an 18.9 % return on equity the earnings represent .
continuing real-estate loan losses in the depressed arizona market the loan growth offset .
a 33 % increase in net credit losses for the quarter , to $ 109 million from $ 81.9 million in the year-ago period security pacific reported .
nonperforming loans grew slightly to $ 1.75 billion at sept. 30 , from $ 1.7 billion a year ago .
security pacific 's loan-loss provision was down 22 % , or $ 30.4 million , because it added the year before to its foreign-debt reserve .
6 % non-interest income fell in the quarter , mainly because of an unusual gain a year earlier from the sale of hong kong banking operations .
only 4 % non-interest expense grew in the period .
a position on a revised tender offer by mccaw cellular communications inc. lin to buy it wo n't take and has asked for clarification of the offer lin broadcasting corp. said .
the new offer , which 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern , seek is for $ 125 a share for 22 million lin shares .
mccaw an auction process to begin in july 1994 that remaining holders would buy out at a per-share price roughly equivalent what to pay for all of lin a third party to might then have mccaw 's revised tender offer would require .
mccaw its tender offer , which an agreement between bellsouth corp. and lin their cellular-telephone businesses to merge challenge to clarify lin is asking .
lin that `` it would shortly respond to the mccaw proposal in as full and effective a manner as is warranted '' bellsouth have notified .
holders may be misled by the provision in the mccaw proposal that `` guarantees '' private market value after five years for the remaining shares the lin board said .
`` no obligation to purchase '' mccaw have and the definition of private market value is uncertain , the lin board said .
that mccaw would be able lin 's operations to control and `` lin in a manner which its private market value and attractiveness to a third-party purchaser could diminish in five years could , therefore , operate '' the board added .
in national over-the-counter trading , lin closed down $ 2.75 at $ 104.75 , .
that dow jones & co. 's $ 18-a-share offer for the electronic financial information services company is `` grossly inadequate '' a group of institutional investors in telerate inc. said .
in a letter filed with the securities and exchange commission , the group , which about 4.5 million telerate shares , or about 4.7 % of the shares outstanding , hold said `` ... '' at present an offer for less than $ 25 per share would be fair none of us believe and that $ 25 is too low some believe .
the letter was dated oct. 6 .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , telerate shares closed down 75 cents a share yesterday at $ 18.875 , .
an $ 18-a-share , or $ 576 million , tender offer the remaining telerate shares outstanding to acquire dow jones , publisher of the wall street journal , have launched ; 67 % of telerate dow jones own .
the offer , which expires nov. 3 telerate have rejected .
putnam cos. and various affiliates based in boston ; wells fargo bank , san francisco ; the california public employees retirement system , sacramento , calif. , and t. rowe price associates inc. , baltimore the group include .
among other issues , `` concern as whether the applicable requirements of procedural fairness dow jones 's offer to meet '' it have the group 's letter said .
the group 's filing , he had n't seen a spokesman for dow jones said but `` dow jones obviously disagree with their conclusions added , .
any and all shares tendered at $ 18 a share to buy our offer is .
that the accord canada 's restrictions on exports of pacific salmon and herring violate the first dispute-settlement panel set up under the u.s.-canadian `` free '' trade agreement have ruled u.s. trade representative carla hills said .
the dispute to resolve the u.s. and canada have until nov. 13 mrs. hills said .
if a solution is n't reached by then , she said , the right some trade concessions to canada equivalent in value to the losses suffered by u.s. fish-processing companies in alaska and the pacific northwest to suspend the u.s. would have .
in ottawa , the `` legitimacy of canada 's position on the use of these landing requirements these important fisheries to conserve and manage '' the dispute-settlement panel accepted canadian trade minister john crosbie however , said .
questioned about the seeming contradiction in the u.s. and canadian government views of the panel 's report , that `` the canadian trade restrictions is illegal '' the panel had clearly ruled an aide for mrs. hills said .
a dollar estimate to put on the losses resulting from the canadian export restrictions the u.s. trade representative declined .
an export prohibition that was replaced by regulations that to be brought ashore prior to export in british columbia by commercial fishermen such fish had requiring canada initially had .
this action was defended by the canadian government on conservation grounds .
that this canadian government argument the dispute-settlement panel rejected mrs. hills said yesterday .
`` that canada will comply with the panel 's ruling that the `` landing requirement '' also must be ended , we fully expect '' she said .
that gatt rules the original canadian fish-export restrictions violated an international panel set up under the rules of the general agreement on tariffs and trade in geneva earlier , determined .
any delays the u.s. wo n't accept after nov. 13 because the next season 's catch to purchase u.s. fish-processing firms enter into contracts in the fall mrs. hills said .
the canadian restrictions must be removed before such contracts is concluded she said .
to spend a carefree , idle day , duty when call , no heed , to pay the precious hours to while away -- what you need character is .
that his lips we at home can read the guy who an intercept throw 'cause his receiver slip should somehow be advised .
a restructuring agreement previously agreed to by the federal deposit insurance corp. , creditor banks and subordinated debenture holders it completed bancoklahoma corp. said .
the bank holding company its bank and debenture obligations to retire through exchanges of cash and equity the plan would permit .
$ 90 million in preferred stock to maintain in the tulsa bank unit the fdic , which in 1986 $ 130 million in open-bank assistance provided to bancoklahoma 's bank of oklahoma , tulsa , unit will continue .
in exchange for the other $ 40 million , additional warrants it 60 % of bancoklahoma 's common stock outstanding , to buy up from the 55 % option the fdic received under terms of the 1986 capital infusion entitling the fdic will receive .
in exchange for the $ 76 million they is owed , 3.9 million shares of bancoklahoma common stock and the proceeds from the future sales of four subsidiary banks to private buyers , creditor banks will receive the bank holding company said .
also under the agreement , one million shares of common stock debenture holders will get in exchange for $ 7.7 million in debentures and 1.25 shares of common stock for every share of preferred they own , holders of bancoklahoma 's series a preferred stock will receive the company said .
were it true that the way for trade surpluses , a weak currency pave then presumably argentina would be the center of today 's global economy .
an offer it will begin tomorrow up to one million of its common shares and all of its $ 16.6 million in 7 3/4 % convertible debentures due 2001 to exchange for a package of new debt and common stock warrants bsn corp. said .
under terms of the offer , $ 9 face amount of 9 1/4 % subordinated notes due 1996 and one warrant the sporting goods maker will swap for each common share .
the holder one bsn share to buy for $ 10.75 a share at any time over the next seven years each warrant allow .
4.6 million common shares outstanding bsn currently have .
$ 850 face amount of new notes and 64 common-stock warrants bsn also is offering for each $ 1,000 face amount of its convertible debt outstanding .
the warrants it can redeem at its option for $ 1 each the company said .
the offer is n't contingent on a certain amount of debt or stock being exchanged .
the offer it is making its capital to shrink and shareholder value increase bsn said .
if the offer , all the bondholders and holders of one million common shares accept its debt bsn will increase by $ 9 million , but a $ 2 million gain from the old debt , retiring it also will recognize michael j. blumenfeld , president said .
`` sufficient cash flow that , to handle we have '' he said .
to expire in mid to late november the offers is scheduled .
37 % , merrill lynch & co. 's net income dropped while a 7.5 % gain in net , bear stearns cos. posted and painewebber group inc. 's profit fell , but would have risen a year ago without a special gain .
$ 2.83 billion , total revenue reached up 10 % from $ 2.57 billion .
weaker revenue in transactions for its own account -- a decline of 19 % to $ 314.6 million on reduced revenue from fixed-income securities trading the firm 's drop in net reflected .
22 % investment banking revenue fell to $ 296.6 million on fewer equity and municipal underwritings .
21 % , merrill lynch 's commission revenue grew however , to $ 462.8 million , on higher share prices and volume and on strong sales of mutual funds .
30 % revenue derived from interest and dividends jumped to $ 1.4 billion .
12 % asset-management fee revenue grew to $ 151 million .
a loss of $ 2.2 million from the discontinued operations and disposal of its fine homes international limited partnership real-estate subsidiary the brokerage also reported .
$ 22.1 million , or 23 cents a share , net in the first quarter ended sept. 29 reached from $ 20.5 million , or 20 cents a share , in the year-earlier quarter bear stearns said .
21 % gross revenue rose to $ 580.4 million from $ 478.9 million .
profit from trading for its own account dropped , the securities firm said .
25 % , investment banking revenue climbed while 31 % commission revenue advanced on a stronger retail market .
bear stearns is the holding company for bear , stearns & co. , the investment banking and brokerage firm .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , bear stearns shares closed down 25 cents at $ 13.625 , .
net income for the third quarter of $ 16.8 million , or 41 cents a share , a `` broad-based improvement '' in the company 's core businesses reflecting painewebber separately , posted .
retail profit surged , but it was only a `` modest contributor '' to third-quarter results the company said .
a year ago , net at the new york investment banking firm was $ 20.9 million , or 50 cents a share , including a special pretax gain of $ 46.3 million from the sale of the company 's interest in national car rental systems inc .
revenue was $ 444.9 million , including net interest , down slightly from $ 450.7 million .
in big board composite trading yesterday , painewebber closed up 75 cents at $ 18.50 , .
an agreement with builder martin selig its headquarters building , the columbia seafirst center , to purchase for $ 354 million it signed seafirst corp. said .
purchase of the 76-story structure is subject to execution of a definitive agreement , approval by the boards of seafirst and its parent company bankamerica corp. , and approval by regulators .
any cash crunch the market upheaval apparently have n't triggered yet -- .
liquidity and payment problems individual investors , investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates can suffer stocks when dive ; their holdings to buy those investors often borrow heavily and the stocks use as collateral for loans .
but no signs of unusual demand for credit that such difficulties would signal they detected several large banks said yesterday .
`` nothing out of the ordinary , we be seeing '' one official at a top 10 bank said .
`` that be good news , because we all swim in this water . ''
`` we was all a little goosey over the weekend what would happen -lcb- monday -rcb- , to forecast trying but it 's been very quiet another executive at a big bank added : .
that another meltdown in prices to handle financial markets is not yet sufficiently coordinated what happened friday shows .
markets no fiddling with systems and procedures will ever prevent from a panic wave of selling suffering .
but markets can operate with greater or lesser efficiency .
after the 1987 plunge , that it would be wise trading to halt panic conditions whenever arose markets agreed .
two specific circuit breakers : if 250 points the dow jones index fall in a day , the exchange will halt trading for one hour ; if 400 points , the decline hit the exchange will close for an additional two hours the new york stock exchange adopted .
that investors their strategies , to reconsider sellers calm and buyers the market to enter at indicated new price levels lead an interruption of trading will allow the rationale is .
it is impossible to whether that theory is realistic know .
a selling panic a temporary cessation of trading may indeed discourage from feeding on itself .
but the possibility that fears markets shutting down will intensify and an even more abrupt slide in prices cause there is also .
their own pre-set circuit breakers the futures exchanges followed and shut down at about 3 p.m. for 30 minutes , after 12 points , or about 100 points on the dow jones index the standard & poor 's 500 stock index had fallen .
trading in many securities options markets stopped .
under its own rules , open the new york stock exchange , remained .
with nowhere else to go , all their selling sellers , and particularly program traders , focused on the new york stock exchange .
as liquidity on that market weakened , prices fell sharply .
had the futures and options markets been open , additional liquidity would have been provided and the decline , most probably , would have been less intense .
at 3:30 , after intense telephone negotiations between the trading markets and washington , the futures exchanges reopened .
futures trading , however , was halted altogether at 3:45 , after an additional 30 points , which is the daily limit for price declines the futures markets had dropped .
at this point , the options markets also shut down and all sales to be handled by the new york stock exchange once more left .
it is time that so closely intertwined as one market to constitute effectively the new york stock exchange , the futures markets and the options markets , though physically separate , have actually become to recognize .
their strategies traders can vary and their orders execute in any one of them .
no sense it therefore make for different circuit breakers each market to adopt .
the slide in prices on friday , synchronized circuit breakers would not have halted but they probably would have made for smoother , less volatile executions .
it 's time for the exchanges and the securities and exchange commission to agree on joint conditions for trading halting or open staying .
's let one market shut down for 30 minutes 100 points the dow when decline and another shut down for an hour after a 250-point decline not have .
the need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials will disappear once rules is in place that circuit breakers synchronize in all markets .
if to be applied at all , they is that futures and options trading continue as long as open the new york stock exchange remain the new circuit breakers , will require .
the rules should be established by agreement of the officials of all affected exchanges acting under the oversight and with the approval of the government regulatory agencies .
should the sec and the commodities futures trading commission ( which , with the sec , the chicago stock-index markets regulates ) be unable to agree , to be resolved by decision of the treasury secretary the issue may have .
in many ways , a decline to handle our financial markets is better prepared today than they was two years ago .
the capacity a volume of nearly a billion shares a day to handle the new york stock exchange now have .
telephone service have been improved for customers their brokers , to reach trying and larger capital positions specialists -- who should stay , i believe despite the urgings of some post-crash critics -- have .
( of course , a major crack in stock prices specialists ' actions alone can never prevent .
the fact that trading in some stocks closed early friday and opened late monday because of an excess of sell orders witness ) .
but unfinished the task of market performance improving remain .
mr. freund , former chief economist of the new york stock exchange , is a professor of economics at pace university 's business school in new york .
labor problems and prospects for u.s. firms a unified europe pose .
the effort the `` social dimension '' -- worker concerns -- of the european community 's plan its internal borders to open in 1992 could set `` off the rails '' if not done reasonably , general electric senior vice president frank doyle say .
`` tough pressure '' from unions u.s. companies to expand in europe wanting in nations such as west germany , which a big consulting role play in management decisions , face he say .
plant relocations and needed restructuring , which layoffs mean unions also wo n't like fmc corp. and baxter international say .
moving to southern countries such as spain and italy , where wages is low and unions is weaker many employers have already begun ; demand for trained labor and managers will rise there , fmc say .
big `` ec '' 92 pluses : a push for job training and ease in moving and workers finding pfizer , fluor and ge see .
a federal judge , so said in a case two players for the minor league bluefield , va. , orioles , a baltimore farm team involving .
the players was heckled by a patron during a july 4 , 1988 , game with the martinsville phillies .
like its parent that year , `` bluefield was not having a good year , '' the judge said .
after the game ( `` three runners stranding in ... the ninth , bluefield lost 9-8 , , '' he noted ) , trouble began .
the players said , more taunting in the parking lot , led to a fight .
he was punched and kicked by one player and that his jaw the other broke with a baseball bat the fan said .
the fan 's suit against the team , the judge dismissed however , the orioles innocent of negligent hiring , and not responsible for a fight that was outside the players ' employment ruling .
proposals arise for coping with the shortage of nurses .
nurses from duties that special skills do n't require freeing an association of academic health centers report urge .
better retirement and day-care benefits , and pay basing on education , experience and nurses ' demanding work schedules it also recommend .
but an american medical association proposal for a `` registered care technologist , '' creating it oppose as `` potentially divisive '' ; an unwanted new doctor 's `` bedside '' extension the job would entail it say .
nurses mra staffing systems sign up for paid travel , annual income up to $ 50,000 and free or subsidized housing promising .
employees treating with respect is crucial for managers , consultant hay group say after surveys of a million workers .
it be in their top five `` work values . ''
they be satisfied with they where work fully 80 % of employees who them their bosses treat with respect , say but only a third of those who respected do n't feel say .
the digs sprucing up : for four months walls , about 200 employees of the maryland department of economic and employment development painted floors , polished and carpeted plants , bought windows and blinds , cleaned and pictures hung at the agency 's baltimore office .
$ 55,000 the 3,000 hours of work will save the state .
high priority wage boosts curbing will get again in 1990 collective bargaining , a bureau of national affairs survey of 250 companies with pacts expiring next year indicate .
despite labor-shortage warnings , 80 % aim for first-year wage increases of under 4 % ; and workers , to replace they 'd try if struck , or it would consider 77 % say .
good educations , temporary workers have the national association of temporary services say ; 82 % with more than a high-school education , and 31 % with college degrees its survey of 2,508 such employees show .
about 12 % have retired from a full-time job , while full time to stay on 54 % was asked .
home-sale losses rise , but they be often covered by employers .
but they search for ways the damage to limit .
about 72 % reimburse for all or some losses .
since 1984 , sales-loss aid , more companies give as many real-estate values depreciated , the council say .
up to $ 30,000 of losses , including improvements rjr nabisco pay .
loss coverage , goodrich wo n't ensure but a `` catastrophic loss '' will prevent ; the full purchase price values when fell from concern over dangers posed by a disposal site it have given some employees .
the home federal express , dow chemical , ford and national city corp. will buy or the worker sell to an outside firm , let but a loss usually wo n't cover .
since 1984 , firms prepurchase house appraisals , offering overpaying , to deter rose to 40 % of those the council polled , from 28 % .
the checkoff : a $ 350,000 achievement award the national academy of engineering give two inventors of the semiconductor microchip ... .
now , that be reactionary : philadelphia postmaster charles james letter carriers union president vincent sombrotto accuse of `` 12th century ... oppressive management tactics .
yesterday was , in the words of new york stock exchange chairman john j. phelan jr. , just your `` reasonably normal , 400 million-share , up 88-points day . ''
it when was over all and a huge recovery , stocks had staged big board officials was self-congratulatory about the day how well had gone .
the exchange 's trading procedures , personnel , equipment and links with other exchanges could n't have performed better they said .
`` no operating problems at all , we had '' mr. phelan said after the market closed .
`` all the things that the process , to slow down people to let that the market was in an extreme position , know we set up worked extremely well '' .
prices for the 416.3 million shares that hands changed during the session was carried on the exchange 's trading tape with barely a delay , officials said .
while blockbuster proportions reaching yesterday , the volume was still well within the 600 million-share capacity that it can handle daily since its computers beefing up after the october 1987 crash the exchange have said .
the so-called circuit breakers free falls in stock and futures prices to quell devised by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange was n't triggered yesterday because the markets was higher for most of the day .
despite traders ' complaints , as planned a cooling-off period to provide the links with the chicago futures market worked in friday 's rout mr. phelan said .
of greater help , the big board chairman said , the `` natural circuit breaker '' of the weekend , that a breathing period `` rationality that brought back to the market provided was .
chicken chains ruffled by loss of customers
some new marketing strategies to hatch fast-food chicken chains , faced with a worsening business slump , is struggling .
10 % customer traffic at chicken restaurants fell in the second quarter , while the overall fast-food customer count was down 2 % the crest report , which consumer purchases , track say .
chicken business is off largely because of more competition from grocery-store convenience food , home-delivered pizza and other takeout fare , a spokesman for the report , a publication of npd group , a market research firm in port washington , n.y say .
the loss of more customers is the latest in a string of problems .
church 's fried chicken inc. and popeye 's famous fried chicken inc. , which have merged , is still troubled by overlapping restaurant locations .
more pressure from mcdonald 's corp. , which its mcchicken sandwich introduced this year and the sale of individual pieces of chicken recently tested chicken chains also is feeling .
new management at kentucky fried chicken , a unit of pepsico inc. , have fought back with new medium and large chicken sandwiches for the lunch crowd .
and products that are n't fried , such as `` char-grilled '' chicken , the chain is testing health-conscious consumers to win to try .
home-delivery of chicken , which could be a hit with stay-at-home diners kentucky fried chicken also is testing .
but problems with chicken warm and fresh keeping must be solved first some fast-food industry analysts say .
the notion that problems in some markets testing where have been discontinued the delivery service experienced a kentucky fried chicken spokesman , however , disputed .
the test is continuing in chicago , columbus , ohio , and a few other cities he say .
the advertising industry is buzzing with rumors that young & rubicam kentucky fried chicken will drop and a new ad agency seek .
but to comment the company decline .
an 11 % drop in 1989 net income kentucky fried chicken will post emanuel goldman , a painewebber inc. analyst , predict .
`` they 've been laggard , '' he say , `` but '' more aggressive to become they 'll have .
soft-sell spots reluctant advertisers try
a soft approach pittsburgh consultant david bear to clients who exposure want yet pushy ads shun is selling .
his ploy : 60-second radio spots that helpful hints offer .
the only plug for the sponsor is a brief mention at the end of the spot .
the business traveler , a daily dose of travel tips developed by mr. bear and sponsored by travel agencies in several major cities the messages resemble .
burt hill kosar rittlemann associates , a butler , pa. , architectural firm new un-advertisers include .
such spots as `` floodlights : evening wear for urban structures '' and `` a place to park building '' its radio series feature .
john kosar , the firm 's president , say `` a harder sell , would detract from the profession '' .
the messages to use fundraisers , to promote hospitals have signed up and the format equitable gas co. is considering energy tips to offer to consumers .
`` a risk of lost messages , there be always '' john fitzgerald , chairman of ketchum advertising usa , which similar radio spots created for pittsburgh national bank say .
`` it be a question of how much credibility you gain for the possible loss of recognition . ''
pitfalls retailer see in environmental push
here a retailer that tough 's getting in the push for environmentally safe packaging and products be .
shelf cards to display and pamphlets distribute products safe for the environment deemed recommending big bear supermarkets inc. , a grocery chain based in san diego , plan .
the choices will be based on research by the san diego environmental health coalition and products like murphy 's oil soap and other noncorrosive cleaners will include .
but the pitfalls of such endorsements the chain is quickly realizing .
for example , nonchlorinated dishwasher detergent it recommend and sunlight put on its environmentally safe list .
procter & gamble co. , maker of cascade dishwasher detergent that do n't thrill .
the validity of the list , a company spokesman questioned that chlorine is present in all major dishwasher detergents noting .
in fact , that chlorine bleach , its sunlight brand do contain though it even is n't listed on the label for the powder version lever bros. confirm .
its product list the chain is still reviewing such problems to avoid thomas g. dahlen , big bear 's executive vice president , said .
`` the best alternative , to promote our intent is '' he say .
`` and it be important that we be accurate . ''
but in the end , what will prevail customers ' wishes is .
big bear do n't care for disposable diapers , which are n't biodegradable .
yet them parents demand .
`` items we might not philosophically agree with to sell we 'll still be forced '' mr. dahlen , say .
neatness do count -- at least in the grocery store .
5 % soap sales climbed bars when was neatly stacked on shelves instead of dumped in a wire basket a study by safeway 's scanner marketing research show ... .
which celebrity endorsers is most believable ?
for the third year in a row , bill cosby first and james garner second in persuasiveness as spokesmen in tv commercials , consumers voted according to video storyboard tests , new york .
bruce willis michael j. fox replaced in third place ; fourth cher placed for the second time .
antonia novello to be the next surgeon general , health and human services secretary louis sullivan have chosen bush administration officials said .
if she is nominated by president bush and confirmed by the senate , c. everett koop , who liberals and conservatives alike rattled with his outspoken views on a range of health issues dr. novello would succeed .
dr. novello , an expert on pediatric kidney diseases , is deputy director of the national institute of child health and human development .
she have also served on several task forces on acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
she would n't talk with reporters , dr. novello 's office said and any information about her to release it refused .
the newsletter medicine & health , which her selection by dr. sullivan , first disclosed said she is 44 years old and she studied at the university of puerto rico school of medicine .
the continuing series of hud scandals is a sadly predictable result of pork-barrel politics .
capitol hill to pressure for more special-interest spending lobbies such as the national association of home builders ( nahb ) nevertheless , continue .
that a multifaceted housing crisis -- reduced affordability of homes for first-time buyers , increased homelessness , and lower apartment construction rates -- that will be `` very difficult '' to solve `` without expanded federal resources '' the u.s. face kent colton , nahb executive vice president , argue .
nothing unusual about business groups pushing for more government spending there be .
but the nahb out of an organization that its name a roosevelt administration proposal to take over all defense housing production fighting made was created in 1943 .
`` the hud budget have dropped by more than 70 % since 1980 , '' mr. colton argue .
`` more than our fair share we have taken .
a problem i would n't have if a similar hit other programs had taken '' .
but nahb support for subsidies is not related to the current housing crunch ; over the years a host of public programs the nahb have backed .
it once pushed for a national housing production goal set by the federal government and anti-recession housing measures have regularly advanced .
one hud official , explain susceptible to internal pressure from members that specialize in subsidized production the nahb moreover , remain .
an extensive and expensive wish-list , which spending would substantially boost above the current level of more than $ 15 billion annually the association is pushing .
the ceiling on federal housing administration mortgage guarantees to peg to 95 % of the median price in a particular market , instead of it limiting to $ 101,250 ; fha down-payment requirements reduce ( or even eliminate ) and the availability of variable-rate mortgages increase ; the veterans affairs department loan guarantee program expand ; `` adequate '' funding for the farmers home administration ( fmha ) provide ; federal funding and tax incentives for the construction of low-income and rental housing , including $ 4 billion in block grants to states and localities increase ; and `` the mckinney act , a $ 656 million potpourri for the homeless fully fund '' it would like .
intolerably expensive direct federal subsidies for housing construction have proved in the past , and inevitably are twisted to the benefit of well-connected developers and lobbyists , as demonstrated by the ongoing hud scandal , or congressmen .
through the fha , for instance , indirect subsidies , is little better .
though fha lending expanding would result in `` no cost to the government , '' mr. colton say the mere diversion of funds from other parts of the economy and from other forms of housing ( such as low-income ) to the single-family home market would result in a major expense .
more important , housing programs run by hud , the va , and fmha is awash in red ink .
$ 4.2 billion the fha alone lost in fiscal 1988 ; the government 's equity in the agency , essentially its reserve fund , fell to minus $ 2.9 billion .
$ 2.28 billion to pump in into the va housing program since 1984 the fund afloat to keep the federal government have had and an additional $ 120 million the va requested for the fiscal year just ended .
more than $ 900 billion of mortgages the federal government all told , already guarantee .
in its nicely produced publication `` our children where will live ? '' that `` of course , the full measure of housing affordability can not be provided by the federal government '' the nahb do acknowledge .
it point to the pernicious impact of local government regulation , particularly zoning and building fees , which the price of housing push out of the reach of low- and middle-income people .
but while actions that regulatory barriers , to reduce states and localities should take the nahb have suggested no activist legislative program -- comparable to , say , its detailed request for more federal subsidies -- counterproductive controls to eliminate the association have proposed .
the association , fewer than 25 units a year , a majority of whose 156,000 members build is like many other business lobbies .
`` it tread in two worlds sheila macdonald of the national taxpayers union explain : .
the subsidies , the builders like but at the same time to be fiscal conservatives in terms of major issues , such as the balanced-budget amendment they tend '' .
its commitment to overall fiscal responsibility to override the organization 's desire for pork unfortunately , tend .
the nahb when lobbied for the $ 19 billion omnibus housing bill , `` the organization two years ago basically dropped out of the taxpayers ' coalition , '' ms. macdonald say .
as mr. colton of the nahb acknowledge : `` the problem to solve government is not going ... .
the economy working and interest rates down to have the real key is '' .
the deficit more money for hud will increase and the economy destabilize ; them more money to municipalities that their local housing markets is wrecking will further insulate from the destructive effects of their policies .
this is what the home builders want ?
mr. bandow is a cato institute fellow .
( related story : `` and bills true wishes come to make '' -- wsj oct. 17 , 1989 see .
in an attempt new momentum to give to european community plans for a single currency , ec government leaders is likely a date for formal talks on the ec 's founding treaty of rome amending starting to set to agree .
according to diplomatic sources in brussels , that talks should begin in the second half of 1990 , and a declaration on that will make during a summit meeting in strasbourg , france , on dec. 8 and 9 most ec leaders agree .
the only strong opposition the ec treaty to changing from british prime minister margaret thatcher , who is opposed a single ec currency to creating come .
but unanimity the process of the intergovernmental conference convening do n't require .
a date for the conference to set french president francois mitterrand fought during the ec summit in madrid last june , but the move was scuttled because of opposition by mrs. thatcher and west german chancellor helmut kohl .
a date for the conference to set clear that it west germany is still committed to ec unity to make mr. kohl may now agree diplomatic sources said .
me the latest crewcut in the equities markets remind of the joke t. boone pickens tell about the guy who was run over by the parade .
`` what went wrong '' when asked ? `` it was a combination of things '' the unfortunate victim replied , .
and so it was on gray friday .
to have been excess leverage the grand marshal of this parade would appear .
if that even is so , however , it be probably the case that the procession to stop before the end of the rout ( e ) no barriers should have been erected .
the ceremonies began friday afternoon that the ual buy-out was collapsing word when spread .
although a substitute offer , consisting of less cash , to patch together the union-bidder expect a growing fear among arbitragers that the pageant of high-leverage takeover deals is ending the failure cash to get from japanese and american banks confirmed .
the parade , lots of other entries made up of course -- notably a surprisingly large increase in producer prices , federal reserve tightness signalling ; and the bush administration 's ( temporary ? ) defeat in the capital-gains tax to lower trying .
as usual , few favorable reviews was heard for that ever-present marching band of program traders , although the music that others write they only play most serious studies suggest .
what the crowds along wall street , really spooked however , was the sudden concern that , whatever the reason , the pool of debt capital is drying up .
a panic mainly by the takeover arbitragers , rather than the small investor , gray friday reflect their highly margined investments in the `` deal '' stocks as is jeopardized by the unexpected drying up of the lubricant for deal financing .
the market deal stocks led down as the heaviest losses they absorbed .
ual , which the slide , triggered opened down about 20 % from thursday 's close monday at $ 224 , .
amr opened down nearly 20 % from thursday 's close monday at $ 80 , .
20 % hilton lost on friday ; almost 11 % paramount lost .
that deal financing where have been secured , the target 's stock price was not affected on friday a careful look reveal .
the multibillion-dollar prospects , a consortium of banks the bidder where must line up and/or issue billions in high-yield debt , was the damage where was concentrated .
the stage the market for so-called junk bonds have been setting for friday 's dramatic march for several weeks .
a pall the growing financial difficulties of recent high-leverage restructurings or takeovers , such as resorts international , integrated resources , and campeau 's retailing empire , have cast over the entire market for high-yield securities .
investors have reacted by recent efforts junk bonds to float by ohio mattress ignoring and by ramada its planned junk-bond sale and restructuring to postpone indefinitely forcing .
as a result , high-yield mutual funds have declined across the board and anxious times the many firms $ 11 billion in junk bonds to sell before year-end planning is experiencing .
these is all market excesses ( the artificial boosts that the tax code give to debt over equity putting aside ) , and what we 've seen is them the market reining in .
of course , washington had n't been silent in the days leading up to the debacle , and a troublesome prospect , its tendency to meddle in the leverage equation remain but us those preliminary steps should n't distract from the basic market fundamentalism that was at work on friday .
if it is correct that concerns over corporate debt and lbos caused gray friday , to find what the implications for policy makers is ?
the anti-debt direction of regulators to confirm the stock market 's response to the collapse of the ual deal after all , might be taken .
is this a case private markets where is approving of washington 's bashing of wall street ?
to the extent that a sudden reappraisal of the excesses of leverage , friday 's sell-off reflected that wall street and the private markets is fully capable of the appropriate incentives and sanctions imposing on corporate behavior the message is .
the private interests of bankers and investors be the ultimate judges of the investment quality of various lbo deals and leveraged restructurings allowing the national economic interests is much better served .
the wisdom of the free markets operate letting the recent difficulties in the junk-bond markets and the scarcity of bank capital for recent deals underscore .
if excessive , takeover premiums become if too aggressive , lbo dealmakers become these problems the private market then will recognize more quickly and accurately than will policy makers , and appropriate sanctions to impose the markets will move with lightning speed .
yes , the broader exchanges got caught up in the spiral , but the tiger they rode up all year .
he not surprisingly , sometimes bite .
the arbitragers and takeover initiatiors got killed on gray friday , while the besieged managers of prospective targets cheered lustily .
if you identify with the besieged managers , that speedy and effective relief from the excesses of the takeover market is more likely to come from the marketplace than from washington you must concede .
if you side with the arbitragers and raiders , more to fear from private investors than from regulators , you clearly have although the delaware courts should never be underestimated .
politics washington understand better than economics the truth is , .
although the average citizen is probably not harmed too much from washington 's rhetorical war against wall street excessive financial leveraging , regarding considerable harm actual legislation would probably impose .
any such attempt `` good debt '' to distinguish from `` bad debt , '' or the line to draw at a particular industry , such as the airlines , is likely the spur that the proper amount of leverage provide both to equity markets and economic efficiency in general to blunt .
far better for policy makers to concentrate on the war against drugs , panama and the deficit , all of them parades that never to end seem .
mr. jarrell , former top economist at the securities and exchange commission , teach at the university of rochester 's simon business school .
tokyo share prices rebounded tuesday morning , with 618.69 points the nikkei index of 225 selected stocks rising to close the morning session at 35087.38 .
647.33 points , or 1.8 % , the index slid on monday .
in the first 25 minutes of tuesday 's trading 664.83 points , the nikkei index soared to 35133.83 .
by 10 a.m. tokyo time , the index was up 435.11 points , to 34903.80 as new york 's overnight rally investors hailed .
monday 's slide in a relatively calm session that much direction did n't provide for other markets came .
shares also closed sharply lower across europe , particularly in frankfurt , although some ground london and a few other markets recovered after to rebound in new york stocks began .
sharper losses than tokyo , other asian and pacific markets had but the selling wave stopped short of another market crash precipitating .
all eyes was on tokyo at the opening because it was the first major market to trade since friday 's 190.58-point plunge on wall street .
but rather than the tone set for other markets , to remain on the sidelines japan 's major institutional investors chose .
despite the sudden reappearance of stock-market turbulence , u.s. or european equities to unload they was n't planning managers of japanese investment funds still , said .
`` we did n't trade much today , as to wait and see , our policy now is '' a fund manager at taisho life insurance co said .
`` to wait and see until trading go around through europe and new york we would like '' .
confident that orderly trading to ensure japanese regulators would step in if necessary , the institutions appeared and considerable speculation during the day that just that to do the finance ministry was working behind the scenes there was .
but in the absence of panicky trading , its presence was never overtly felt .
at the close , the nikkei average of 225 stocks stood down 647.33 points , or 1.8 % at 34468.69 , .
45.66 , or 1.7 % , the broader tokyo stock price index sank to 2600.88 .
the day 's decline was generally in line with analysts ' weekend predictions .
advancers , declining issues swamped 941-105 .
but volume was thin at 526.2 million shares , compared with 574.7 million friday .
the market opened sharply lower , with the nikkei average down nearly 600 after 20 minutes .
it a midmorning rebound brought back a gain of about 200 to show at the end of the morning session , but the rally failed in the afternoon , and the market closed near the day 's low .
their biggest decline of the year the smaller stocks in the tokyo market 's second section also posted .
100.96 , or 2.7 % , the tokyo stock exchange index for the second section fell to 3655.40 .
many investors , the market 's major indexes , to outperform trying have flocked to these small issues in recent weeks .
relief that the tokyo market did n't fall more sharply japanese investors and traders expressed .
but some resemblance to events of two years ago , during the october 1987 global stock market crash its performance did bear .
on oct. 16 , 1987 -- the friday before the black monday crash -- 4.6 % , the new york market dropped and tokyo followed on monday with a 2.4 % drop .
this time , wall street 's plunge of 6.9 % friday was followed by yesterday 's 1.8 % loss in tokyo .
tokyo 's biggest fall two years ago , came the day after new york 's 22.6 % black monday plunge , 14.9 % the nikkei average when fell .
yesterday market participants thus , was looking ahead nervously to wall street 's opening .
but in new york yesterday , 88.12 the dow jones industrial average surged to close at 2657.38 on heavy volume of 416,290,000 shares , although advancing ones declining issues still outnumbered on the broad market .
yesterday 's session `` a good scenario '' for japan nobuto yasuda , a director at yamaichi investment trust & management co. , called .
`` we now is looking for the time buy orders , to place '' he said .
`` for us institutional investors , the chance for buying have come '' .
also isao ushikubo , general manager of the investment research department at toyo trust & banking co. , was optimistic .
friday 's plunge in the u.s. he described as a `` fleeting '' event resulting in part from excessive merger and acquisition activity .
`` unless a panic , there is this is the best time to buy , as was the case two years ago , '' he said .
`` those shares which gains had posted on m&a speculation was dashed with cold water , but much impact as far as major stocks is concerned , there is n't '' .
other fund managers was similarly sanguine .
`` no plans our asset allocation in foreign equities , to adjust we have '' masato murakami , chief portfolio manager in the pension fund management department at yasuda trust & banking co said .
friday 's wall street decline was `` well within the range of volatility '' that for yasuda trust plan its overseas investment strategy it when chart he said .
among other asian and pacific markets , the biggest losses , malaysia and singapore had with 11.5 % the kuala lumpur composite index in malaysia falling and singapore 's straits times industrial index down 10 % .
more than 8 % in australia and new zealand and 6.5 % in hong kong major indexes declined .
bangkok , manila , seoul , taipei and jakarta escaped with slightly smaller losses .
the region 's markets was reacting to friday 's wall street plunge even though that decline was due to local factors such as failed corporate buy-outs and a deteriorating junk-bond market brokers and fund managers said .
`` it be pure psychology , '' william au yeung , an account executive for drexel burnham lambert ( hk ) ltd. in hong kong said .
`` markets in this region is n't so geared to leveraged buy-outs , and generally their economies is in good shape , but no doubt that america 's lead asia is still following there be '' .
the biggest losses malaysia and singapore had because they is relatively open to rapid cash flows several analysts said .
hong kong is the region 's next most open market , but many foreign investors have been staying away from it since it plunged in june amid political turmoil in china .
`` the hit singapore took to get out , people when want to go the liquidity where is , they because tend '' elizabeth hambrecht , a regional analyst with baring securities ( hong kong ) ltd said .
that even after monday 's 10 % decline , the straits times index is up 24 % this year , she pointed out so investors who bailed out generally did so profitably .
yesterday 27.5 % above its 1988 close kuala lumpur 's composite index similarly , ended .
in hong kong , 180.60 the hang seng index fell to finish at 2601.70 .
trading was heavy at about one billion shares , compared with 473.9 million friday .
but the session was orderly , in contrast to the market 's four-day closure after the 1987 crash .
bottom the market probably have n't hit yet but is close richard chenevix-trench , a director at hong kong-based baring international fund managers ltd. , said .
`` if new york do n't collapse , maybe another 5 % i see on the downside , the risk of bad news out of china , not counting '' he said .
in australia , sydney 's all ordinaries index closed down 8.1 % , at 1601.5 , its biggest drop since october 1987 .
but volume rose only to 162 million shares from 143 million friday .
the market 's performance nestor hinzack , an analyst at brokerage firm burdett , buckeridge & young ltd. , described as `` sheep-like '' as investors fled to bluechip australian stocks and entrepreneurial companies they perceived as any takeover premium built into the price having shunned .
london 's financial times-stock exchange 100-share index , the most closely watched market barometer , ended down 70.5 , or 3.2 % at its intraday high of 2163.4 , .
at its low , before wall street shortly opened , it was off more than 130 points .
the financial times 30-share index closed 79.3 points lower at 1738.7 .
volume more than doubled to 959.3 million shares from 457.7 million friday .
prices on the frankfurt stock exchange tumbled in heavy trading .
the decline in the german stock index of 203.56 points , or 12.8 % , to 1385.72 was the frankfurt market 's steepest fall ever .
holdings retail investors dumped on a massive scale , some blue-chip shares pushing down as much as 20 % .
memories of two years ago , many small investors when held on to their shares after the october crash but to decline steeply for the next three months the west german market continued analysts cited .
them directly comparable , to make each index is based on 100 the close of 1969 equaling .
the percentage change is since year-end .
that if the world you tipped on its side , everything loose would end up in california to have said once frank lloyd wright is reported .
that california 's vitality , mr. wright underestimated we have always thought but the forces that it such a significant place made to overwhelm the state 's la-la factions maybe is starting .
if passed by the voters , major pesticides , the recently announced initiative would phase out carbon dioxide emissions reduce by 40 % , new offshore drilling , ban chemicals the ozone layer , to deplete thought ban and a new state environmental officer armed with a $ 40 million budget any firm or agency is being too dirty he think to sue create .
the initiative is based largely on the wish-lists of the green lobby : the sierra club , the league of conservation voters , the natural resources defense council , the national toxics campaign and the citizens for a better environment .
nothing to do with this one the environmental defense fund interestingly , is having .
not only californians but all americans would pay if this thing passed .
the sale of any crops in california that the initiative 's standards do n't meet the initiative bar .
to adjust or the california market give up kansas wheat farmers and florida fruit growers would have .
in other words , control of the nation 's farm policy to take california is presuming .
as usual the green lobby 's proposal is disconnected from scientific reality .
a reduction of carbon dioxide of 40 % the proposed initiative would mandate .
if one even buys into the whole greenhouse theory , it is inconceivable that any impact on what is billed as a global problem reductions in a single state could have .
under these circumstances the first place to look is at the ways in which the sponsors themselves will benefit .
here the key is the ambition of state attorney general john van de kamp .
he be running for governor .
mr. van de kamp is the one who the plans collected from the various radical environmental groups and them cobbled into a single unwieldy initiative to be placed on the ballot for election on nov. 6 , 1990 .
that be also the day of the gubernatorial election .
all the hot issues that the wealthy hollywood weepers who money donate set off to include to have been crafted the initiative seem .
and mr. van de kamp to get around campaign spending limits it allow .
the legal maximum for his campaign he can spend ; all the spending for the van de kamp initiative ( on which no limits there is ) is gravy .
the big green , this initiative is being labeled but the big greenback it maybe should be called .
( the initiative fundraising game the republican candidate , sen. pete wilson , is playing too , his own crime initiative sponsoring ) .
while it is possible that unconstitutional , the big green initiative will be ruled it is of course conceivable that in modern california it could slide through .
this is the state that the prop. 65 anti-toxic initiative recently passed .
if law , this new proposal ever do become the green lobby will benefit directly .
a free floating state environmental officer companies or government agencies that things he do n't like do to sue the initiative create .
as much money to spend on litigation the nrdc and such groups no longer would have that mean ; the cost taxpayers would bear .
that the environment is such a mom and apple-pie issue among certain segments of california 's population now that almost any collection of anti-scientific , anti-pocketbook nonsense can pass under its rubric mr. van de kamp and his allies may be hoping .
of course the state 's liberals is not yet a nation unto themselves .
for example , that he to be the president who control of interstate commerce lost to an attorney general from california do n't want george bush , may decide .
and that significant costs the initiative would impose on the state 's less affluent citizens in the form of higher food prices and lost jobs to point out some other segments of california 's political and media culture may yet start .
itself california define for the future either as a state still tethered to economic and scientific reality , or as one being led it to take its la-la activists to wherever want this grandiose initiative will help .
a death watch first , there was .
spurred by waves of large-scale buying in blue-chip stocks , the dow jones industrial average rallied yesterday and about a half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , erased 88.12 gaining to 2657.38 .
it was the fourth-biggest advance for the average of 30 blue chips , on frenetic new york stock exchange volume of 416,290,000 shares -- the highest since the days after the 1987 crash .
while investors who a 1987-style crash would occur yesterday , feared the advance cheered it was strictly a big-stock rally fed by huge buying by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
a troubling sign : advancers , declining stocks on the big board outnumbered 975 to 749 , and aftershocks of friday 's late big board plunge the over-the-counter market that many smaller stocks include suffered .
the nasdaq otc index closed down 6.31 to 460.98 .
in a divergence in two of the market 's most important indicators , 102.06 the dow industrials ' sister average , the 20-stock dow jones transportation average , meanwhile , tumbled to 1304.23 -- its second-worst decline next to the 164.78-point fall during the 1987 crash .
transports plunged on takeover disappointments in two airline stocks , ual and amr , which each more than 20 % fell they when reopened for trading yesterday after being suspended friday afternoon .
56 7/8 ual , the takeover stock at the center of friday 's 190.58-point market plunge , fell to 222 7/8 on nearly 2.3 million shares .
overall , `` this is a pleasant rally but it be very selective , '' arthur cashin jr. , a veteran painewebber inc. trader at the big board said .
`` a little everyone was concerned about the general narrowness of the rally and failure of the otc market to get into plus territory .
it be just a strange feeling .
the place dixie whistling anyone left i do n't think '' .
credence , the rally gave at least for now , to the pre-trading declaration of big board chairman john j. phelan jr. that friday 's market debacle was `` an abnormal condition , and not a disaster '' .
but to traders , it looked like disaster on the 9:30 a.m. opening bell .
the dow jones industrial average opened down 1.64 shortly after 9:30 .
at 9:45 , procter & gamble -- one of the most important dow bellwethers of late -- opened down 2 3/4 to 117 .
the dow dropped to a quick 27-point loss , and to many traders it looked as if stocks was headed for yet another big tumble .
more stocks opened over the ensuing half hour , as buy orders from major brokerage firms the selling flood to match to find the 49 big board specialist firms in charge of the market orderly keeping groped .
matters worse , to make stocks hammering into steeper losses computerized sell programs then , kicked in , .
heavy stock-index arbitrage , there was as big baskets of stock traders sold and stock-index futures bought to profit from the price discrepancies between the two markets .
this was a hangover from friday , standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures when had closed at a sharp discount to stocks .
any hopes that some of the big program trading firms would hold off until the market stabilized the onslaught of the program selling dashed .
they did n't .
its slide , the dow accelerated 63.52 losing in the first 40 minutes of trading .
with program traders seemingly in charge , buyers backed away from the market and stocks fall watched .
at 10:15 to rebound , the dow then suddenly started and it when shot upward it did so even faster than the early-morning fall .
and this time , it was n't just the program traders who were responsible .
stocks all the selling had pushed to such cheap values that stocks buying heavily big investment banks and major money management firms started .
the program traders was in there , too , of course .
but according to one trader , `` as dominant on the upside as on the downside the programmers did n't look because a lot of bargain-hunting by institutions there was also -lcb- -rcb- '' .
`` our orders to double yesterday morning the first thing we did was '' roland m. machold , director of the new jersey division of investment , which $ 29 billion in investments , oversee said .
`` with the market down like this , another $ 50 million we 'll probably take and it put in the market '' .
traders ' eyes trading in walt disney co. particularly caught .
according to big board officials , one of the biggest sell-order imbalances disney had on friday ; it was one of the seven stocks that trading could n't finish that day .
the stock opened late down 8 1/2 at 114 1/2 , .
but it then shot upward 7 1/2 as goldman , sachs & co. stepped in and bought , traders said .
`` i would be surprised if 4 % of the opening volume goldman represented '' disney specialist robert fagenson however , said : .
around wall street , that the market they could at least play yesterday , in contrast to friday 's gridlock trading desks was relieved .
at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette inc. , `` the opening was constructive i think head equity trader dudley eppel said : .
it was orderly .
some orders we put together .
not like friday the market they where just took apart -lcb- -rcb- . ''
the market still , had n't yet crossed into positive territory , and traders was glum .
but in another dramatic burst , the dow tacked on 42 points in five minutes , and at 10:25 a gain of 5.74 the index showed .
on the big board floor and on trading desks , their approval traders yelped .
`` you , healthy this market act i tell '' griffith peck , a trader in shearson lehman hutton inc. 's otc department grinned : .
around him , a burst of energy to get scores of traders seemed ; bottles of perrier water their boss broke out them to cool off .
among big board specialists , `` your offers pull '' the cry was -- that higher prices to get for their shares specialists soon expected meaning .
`` it was bedlam on the upside , '' one big board specialist said .
but money not everybody was making .
the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options was halted friday .
bullish positions many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract had friday , and the shutdown when came they was frozen with huge losses .
over the weekend , the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning clearing firms told .
`` they was absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' one chicago-based options trader said .
that yesterday 's big rally the closely watched major market index , the dow industrials , whose 20 stocks mimic did n't lead some traders said .
`` that a savior to go into the major market index , $ 2 million spend and the program rally started get we then needed `` the difference between today and two years ago -- `` terrible tuesday , '' oct. 20 , 1987 -- '' is james gallagher , a partner at specialist fowler & rosenau , said , .
this time -lcb- -rcb- institutions saw the programs coming and backed away and backed away .
when the market was at a technical level to buy , they then came in with a vengeance '' .
however , according to one analyst , just before the turnaround the timing of major market index futures buying was similar to that of terrible tuesday .
`` the stock market futures was pulling higher , '' donald selkin , head of stock-index futures research at prudential-bache securities inc said .
although the big board 's specialist firms struggled through another highly volatile trading session , yesterday their performance was better than during friday 's late-afternoon chaos , according to traders and brokers who work with them .
specialists was criticized for their inability orderly markets to maintain during the friday plunge .
but yesterday , even with halts in such major blue-chip stocks as merck , `` the halts we expected ( ) and it was n't too bad , '' donaldson 's mr. eppel , who had been critical of the specialists ' performance on friday said .
according to a big board official , while many stocks opened late , subsequent trading halts there was in only three issues -- amr , merck and valero energy .
merck is one of the most important stocks in the major market index .
no sector of the market have been spared during the past two days ' gyrations .
from the dow industrials ' high on oct. 9 through friday 's plunge , relatively good performances yet have been turned in by real-estate , utilities , precious metals and life insurance stocks .
and yesterday , the top performing industry group was oil field equipment issues .
for example , 3 1/4 halliburton jumped to 38 , 2 1/2 schlumberger rose to 43 1/4 and 1 1/8 baker hughes rose to 22 .
because of the ual and amr tumbles , airlines was the weakest sector of the market yesterday .
philip morris was the big board 's most active issue , 2 1/4 rising to 43 1/4 on nearly eight million shares .
among other major issues , coca-cola co. closed up 2 at 66 3/4 on 1.7 million shares and 3 1/4 american telephone & telegraph rose to 43 on nearly 7.8 million shares .
shares of international business machines , which earnings reported yesterday , finished up 1 , at 103 , after slipping below 100 during friday 's session for the first time in five years .
shares of three brokerage firms rose after earnings they reported .
1 3/4 merrill lynch added to 28 , 3/4 painewebber rose to 18 1/2 and 3/8 bear stearns rose to 14 1/4 .
4 federal national mortgage association , a recently hot stock , climbed to 124 on nearly 1.6 million shares .
at a news conference after the close of trading yesterday , the performance of their computers and personnel the big board 's mr. phelan and other exchange officials praised .
that program trading strategies was n't responsible for friday 's decline triggering despite a jump in the use of the computer-driven strategies in recent months mr. phelan said .
some 24 million of the more than 100 million shares traded in the final 90 minutes of friday 's session , the plunge in stock prices when was concentrated , were program-related , he said .
10 % of the exchange 's volume program trades make up on an average day , but despite the increase friday , it was `` certainly not something the market decline , precipitated you would say '' mr. phelan said .
relief that the market rebounded yesterday mr. phelan expressed .
`` every time this kind of reaction , we get everybody nervous , including me , to make it obviously , be going '' he said .
that conversations with wall street firms exchange officials had throughout the weekend and that `` all the participants behaved very , very responsibly today '' he said .
institutional investors in the otc market , who were heavy buyers of the nasdaq 's biggest technology issues yesterday amid a flood of selling by other investors peter dapuzzo , shearson 's head of retail equity trading , meanwhile , praised .
`` the institutions ca n't be criticized for their behavior , '' mr. dapuzzo said in an interview .
`` it was the opposite of what happened on oct. 19 .
their judgment they used .
which the market orderly kept they instead , bought on weakness and sold into the strength , .
they maybe learned from experience '' .
the performance of specialists during friday 's plunge was admirable , because out of 1,640 big board common stocks traded during the day only seven were closed and were n't reopened before the close mr. phelan said .
`` an excellent job , they did '' mr. phelan said of the specialists .
on friday wall street traders had complained about the trading suspensions .
james a. white and sonja steptoe contributed to this article .
its ideological soulmates jeremy rifkin and the christic institute west germany 's green party joined in the legal battle the atlantis shuttle and its plutonium-powered galileo probe to jupiter to ground .
a washington federal appeals court today 's scheduled liftoff to block long enough for the world court `` a permanent cancellation of the $ 1.5 billion flight to order '' them to ask the anti-defense greens wanted .
yesterday to comply , a three-judge appeals panel refused though that this was a `` frivolous '' case to deny liberal judge pat wald went out of her way .
of course it was .
nasa should now sue for fines against all three politico-plaintiffs , foreign and domestic , for this mischievous case bringing .
a permanent smoking ban on all domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on all flights of six hours or less to alaska and hawaii a house-senate conference approved .
all but a small percentage of domestic air traffic , the restrictions would cover and a major expansion of the current smoking ban on flights of two hours or less represent .
to be largely a face-saving concession for the traditionally powerful tobacco industry , which itself increasingly isolated have found in the face of public pressure in recent years the exemption allowed on longer flights to alaska and hawaii appear .
by a 6-4 margin , a senate provision all domestic flights covering house negotiators initially rejected last night .
but the six-hour compromise was soon agreed to in subsequent discussions .
as a practical matter , flights from the west coast to hawaii would be covered as they is under the time limit , but longer routes beginning , for example , in chicago or on the east coast the language would exempt .
within the senate , aggressive support from sen. frank lautenberg ( d. , n.j. ) , who his position as a senate appropriations subcommittee chairman have used votes for the initiative to garner the ban have had .
the measure is attached to the more than $ 26 billion fiscal 1990 transportation bill within mr. lautenberg 's jurisdiction , and the final compromise is laced with more than $ 205 million in road projects earmarked by members as well as funds sought by major airports , including denver .
from the outset , the tobacco industry has been uncertain as what strategy to to follow .
but support the industry retain in the house leadership through the influence of grower states , such as north carolina .
a political debt majority whip william gray owe to southern agriculture lawmakers for his rise in the house , and his position in the conference the philadelphia democrat used the exemption to salvage from a total ban .
although the most public interest , the smoking provision have attracted the underlying bill was the subject of behind-the-scenes lobbying because of its impact on air transportation and the more mundane , but politically important , projects of members .
in a stark lesson in the power of the appropriations committees , a handful of projects by lawmakers in florida , illinois and pennsylvania who had voted against the panel leadership on the house floor backed the house deliberately killed .
`` anybody can vote as they want , '' rep. william lehman ( d. , fla. ) , head of the house conferees said .
within the federal aviation administration , spending for facilities and equipment to increase by more than 20 % from last year , the final bill promise and total operations would rise to $ 3.84 billion -- a 12 % boost .
$ 40 million for denver 's ambitious new airport , the facilities account include and shifting alliances between urban lawmakers established airports in philadelphia and michigan and the major carriers to denver , united and continental representing the competition for these funds created .
leery of the costs -- and , critics say , competition -- leverage over the city of denver to gain the airlines have sought .
texas air corp. , which continental , own and the air transport association was prominent in the lobbying .
conditions that funds for the project would have delayed until denver and the airlines had agreed to leases for 50 % of the gates to impose the industry sought .
but this was rejected in favor of much looser language the transportation department directing the costs of the first phase , about $ 2 billion to cost expected to review .
though smaller in total dollars , an estimated $ 30.6 million in controversial subsidies to carriers rural or isolated airports serving to preserve the conference agreed .
the sum is more than double what the house had approved for the program , but the list of qualified airports would be cut by 22 under new distance requirements and limits on the level of subsidy .
six airports congress previously cut this year .
many of the most excessive cases more than $ 200 the government where have been paying for each passenger in subsidies to eliminate the impact of the changes is .
among rail and highway accounts , $ 615 million for amtrak , including $ 85 million for capital improvements the agreement provide .
and federal-formula grants for mass transit would be effectively frozen at $ 1.625 billion , or $ 20 million more than last fiscal year .
several blockbuster movie hits including `` batman , '' enjoying earnings for the first quarter ended aug. 31 of $ 5.8 million , or 50 cents a share , compared with a year-earlier loss los angeles-based guber-peters entertainment co. reported .
its top executives , peter guber and jon peters , to free from an exclusive agreement with time warner inc. 's warner communications inc. sony corp. , which the movie-production company , to acquire has offered is seeking so columbia pictures entertainment inc they can run .
columbia to acquire for $ 3.4 billion , or $ 27 a share sony two weeks ago agreed .
sony and guber-peters warner sued late last week ; warner charging with to interfere in sony 's acquisition of the two companies attempting sony and guber-peters have countersued , .
guber-peters 's net income in the latest quarter compared with a net loss of $ 6.9 million , or 62 cents a share , in the year-earlier period .
138 % , revenue rose to $ 10.9 million from $ 4.6 million , the success of its movies `` gorillas in the mist '' and `` rainman , '' as well as the box-office smash `` batman reflecting the company said .
its stake in aristech chemical corp. it boosted to 8.36 % of the the common shares outstanding a group including jon m. huntsman of salt lake city , said .
as previously reported , that aristech banstar corp. , an affiliate of huntsman holdings , acquire in a friendly transaction for $ 25-a-share in cash , or $ 817.5 million huntsman holdings corp. , owned by jon m. huntsman and other members of his family , proposed .
in a filing with the securities and exchange commission , 2,720,675 aristech common shares , including 306,000 shares bought from aug. 21 to oct. 13 for $ 20 to $ 20.875 per share it control the huntsman group said .
comment officials at aristech , based in pittsburgh , declined .
congress has been critical of the bush administration for enough aid not sending to poland , so ready its own version of a care package to send it is getting .
last month , a delegation of congressional staffers to send to poland its legislature , the sejm , to assist in democratic procedures the senate voted .
this effort `` the first gift of democracy . '' senator pete domenici call
it to view as a trojan horse the poles might do better .
it is the vast shadow government of 15,000 congressional staffers such legislative atrocities as the 1,376 page , 13-pound reconciliation bill that to be the budget of the united states claimed create that helps .
maybe after their work the staffers explain to the poles , they 'd be willing to come back and the same do for the american people .
that its pretax loss for the first six months widened to 10.6 million irish punts ( $ 14.9 million ) from 5.8 million irish punts a year earlier waterford wedgwood plc , a financially troubled irish maker of fine crystal and wedgwood china , reported .
the results for the half was worse than market expectations , which an interim loss of around 10 million irish punts suggested .
in a sharply weaker london market yesterday , waterford shares was down 15 pence at 50 pence ( 79 cents ) .
a loss after taxation and minority interests of 14 million irish punts , compared with a loss of 9.3 million irish punts for the year-earlier period the company reported .
any extraordinary items there was n't .
27 % sales for the total group rose to 168.1 million irish punts compared with 132.6 million irish punts a year ago .
waterford have decided against an interim dividend paying .
the company 's long-term prospects to enhance the appointment of a new management team and the signing of a comprehensive labor agreement is expected waterford said .
the sudden `` flight to quality '' that friday 's explosive bond-market rally triggered was reversed yesterday in a `` flight from quality '' rout .
a rebound in the stock market and profit-taking the setback , in which treasury bond prices plummeted , reflected .
`` it was a pretty wild day .
our markets was closely tied to the stock market , '' joel kazis , manager of trading at smith barney , harris upham & co said .
`` friday 's flight to quality was no longer needed once its legs , the stock market found '' he said .
a further drop in stock prices some fixed-income investors had expected after the nearly 200-point drop in the dow jones industrial average on friday .
but to climb instead , stocks when began prices of treasury bonds declined .
dispatches by several investment firms clients their stock holdings to boost and the size of their cash or bond portfolios reduce advising contributing was to the selling pressure .
among the firms merrill lynch & co. and dean witter reynolds inc was .
evidence that credit conditions the federal reserve eased slightly by the federal funds rate as low as 8 1/2 % to drift allowing to ignore the bond market seemed .
the closely watched rate on federal funds , or overnight loans between banks , slid down from its perceived target level of about 9 % to about 8 3/4 % last week , .
an early signal of changes in fed policy the rate is considered .
much enthusiasm yesterday 's modest easing did n't stir because it had been widely expected traders said .
in fact , that the latest easing started last week some economists contend .
that some investors was disappointed because a more aggressive easing they had expected others note .
about 1 3/4 points lower , or down about $ 17.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond , ended .
the reversal was even more evident among shorter-term treasury securities .
after as much as 0.70 percentage point treasury bill rates plummeted on friday , three-fourths of that amount they gave back yesterday .
for example , the bond-equivalent yield on three-month treasury bills , was quoted late yesterday at 7.72 % , compared with 7.16 % friday .
investment-grade corporate bonds , mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds also fell .
but small gains to post after a volatile trading session prices of junk bonds , which was battered friday in near standstill trading , rebounded .
as much as four points lower junk bonds opened but a modest comeback staged as stock prices firmed .
the high-yield market was helped by active institutional buying some traders said .
in particular , they said , a market in junk issues making early in the session severely depressed levels prices when hit firms such as first boston corp. and drexel burnham lambert inc. began .
`` the sentiment for junk bonds , the willingness of securities companies markets to make for high-yield issues improved i think '' john lonski , an economist at moody 's investors service inc said .
u.s. treasury bonds was higher in overnight trading in japan , which opened at about 7:30 p.m. edt .
for example one point the benchmark 30-year bond , rose in early japanese trading in reaction to a quick 600-point drop in the tokyo stock market .
but as japanese stocks rebounded , treasurys retreated and ended just modestly higher .
many u.s. trading operations , a watchful eye to keep on japanese trading as an indication of u.s. trading where would begin , wanting was fully staffed during the tokyo trading session .
`` most of the action was during the night session , '' michael moore , trading manager at continental bank said .
trading in tokyo was `` very active '' but highly volatile jay goldinger , who often trades overnight for capital insight inc. , beverly hills , calif. , said .
`` we went down 3/4 point in 10 minutes right before lunch , after lunch we then went up 3/4 point in 12 minutes , '' he said .
in tokyo , trading is halted during lunchtime .
to be a bad bellwether for u.s. trading tokyo 's market turned out .
the market when opened here , bonds prices fell as strength the stock market regained .
the bond market 's focus on stock activity was so strong yesterday that today 's slate of economic data , which the government 's report on august u.s. merchandise trade and september industrial production include it overshadowed .
0.2 % , to have declined industrial production is expected according to a consensus of economists surveyed by dow jones capital markets report .
to have widened to $ 9.1 billion from $ 7.58 billion in july the august trade deficit is expected .
one new york trader , said a widening of that magnitude , is `` not a favorable number ... .
damage to us it could do '' .
to weigh heavily on the market today a $ 2.3 billion offering of one-year , three-year , five-year and 10-year maturities the federal home loan bank when price agency supply meanwhile , is expected .
tomorrow , details of its first bond issue , which between $ 4 billion and $ 6 billion to total and a maturity greater than 20 years carry is expected the resolution funding corp. will provide .
resolution funding is a division of resolution trust corp. , the new federal agency the nation 's troubled thrifts to bail out created .
and this week a $ 3 billion offering , its first public debt borrowing in 15 years to price the tennessee valley authority plan .
`` there 's lots of supply , '' the new york trader said .
`` a couple or three tough weeks coming we have '' .
prices of treasury bonds tumbled in moderate to active trading .
the benchmark 30-year treasury bond was quoted late at a price of 101 19/32 , compared with a closing price of 103 12/32 friday .
the yield on the benchmark issue rose to 7.97 % from 7.82 % .
the latest 10-year notes was quoted late at 100 3/32 for a yield of 7.97 % , compared with 101 9/32 7.84 % to yield .
short-term interest rates fell yesterday at the government 's weekly treasury bill auction .
the average discount rate on new three-month treasury bills was 7.37 % , the lowest since the average of 7.36 % at the auction on oct. 17 , 1988 .
the average discount rate was 7.42 % on new six-month bills , the lowest since the average of 7.35 % at the auction on july 31 , 1989 .
rates is determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value .
the investor 's return higher bidding thus , narrow while it lower bidding widen .
the percentage rates is calculated on a 360-day year , while the coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year .
both issues is dated oct. 19 .
the 13-week bills mature jan. 18 , 1990 , and the 26-week bills mature april 19 , 1990 .
one to 1 1/2 point lower investment-grade corporate bonds ended .
no new issues there was .
foreign bonds surged as the dollar weakened against most major currencies .
among benchmark issues : -- japan 's no. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended up 1.17 point on brokers screens at 96.15 , .
the yield was 5.245 % .
-- 6.99 % to yield west germany 's 6 3/4 % issue due june 1999 ended up 0.91 point at 98.30 , .
-- 10.12 % , to yield britain 's 11 3/4 % bond due 2003/2007 ended 1 1/8 higher at 111 19/32 while 21/32 the 11 3/4 % notes due 1991 rose to 98 26/32 12.74 % to yield .
most of friday 's gains mortgage securities gave up as active issues ended 24/32 to 30/32 point lower .
dealers said morning activity was hectic as prices dropped in response to gains in the stock market and losses in treasury securities , but trading slowed to moderate levels in the afternoon .
government national mortgage association 9 % securities for november delivery was quoted down 30/32 from friday late yesterday at 98 4/32 , ; 9 1/2 % securities was down 27/32 at 100 5/32 ; and 10 % securities was at 102 2/32 , off 24/32 .
federal home loan mortgage corp. 9 % securities was at 97 1/4 , down 3/4 .
on friday , mortgage issues gained as much as 1 5/32 .
late yesterday 9.39 % ginnie mae 9 % securities was yielding to a 12-year average life assumption , as 0.01 percentage point the spread above the treasury 10-year note narrowed to 1.42 .
some busy dealings in freddie mac and federal national mortgage association securities there was because collateral for new deals to gather underwriters from last week 's heavy slate of real estate mortgage investment conduit issues moved traders said .
the remic-related purchases continued heavy sales by mortgage originators , which increased amounts of fixed-rate mortgage-backed issues with lower rates is producing offsetting was .
no new-issue activity there was in the derivative market .
municipal bonds rebounding stocks and weaker treasury prices drove 1/4 to 3/4 point lower in late dealings .
municipal dollar bonds close they to where was before a capital markets rally the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average friday prompted the session losses left .
trading was hectic during the morning , with whether equities would continue friday 's free fall or stabilize after a brief spot of weakness to gauge players trying .
the session flat to a touch higher tax-exempts started on anticipation of further stock market erosion , but bond prices rapidly turned south as more clear that a repeat of the october 1987 crash was n't at hand it became .
municipal trading professionals dominated throughout the session .
the sidelines to be hugging until a measure of volatility is wrung out of the market retail investors seemed traders said .
new jersey turnpike authority 's 7.20 % issue of 2018 was off 3/4 at 98 1/2 bid , 7.32 % , yielding up 0.07 percentage point from late friday .
florida board of education 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2023 was 5/8 point weaker at 99 1/2 bid .
the 7 1/8 % issue of triborough bridge and tunnel authority of new york , due 2019 , was off 5/8 at 98 1/8 bid .
and fairfax county , va. , water authority 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2027 was down 3/4 at 99 7/8 bid .
serial bond yields was up about 0.05 percentage point .
`` strategic alternatives , '' for its business men 's assurance co. unit , it be weighing and possible buyers of the life and health insurance operation is contacting bma corp. , kansas city , mo. , said .
a bma spokesman said health insurance `` a significant challenge , '' `` runaway medical costs '' have made and margins also have been pinched by changes in the mix of life-insurance products consumers now demand .
about $ 288 million of the company 's $ 488 million in 1988 revenue , the business men 's assurance unit represented and the unit 's operating income was about $ 10 million , the spokesman said .
possible buyers for the unit to contact bma 's investment banker , alex . brown & sons inc. , have been authorized .
its stake in adt ltd. of bermuda it raised to 29.4 % from 28 % laidlaw transportation ltd. said .
the price for the additional shares , which were acquired `` over the last couple of weeks . '' he said the toronto transportation and waste services concern paid to disclose a spokesman for laidlaw declined
its stake in adt laidlaw because of british takeover regulations that a company more than 30 % acquiring an offer to extend to the rest of the company 's shareholders require would n't increase beyond 30 % `` without a great deal of thought '' the spokesman said .
adt , a security services and auctions company , trade on london 's stock exchange .
laidlaw is 47%-controlled by canadian pacific ltd. , a montreal transportation , resources and industrial holding concern .
a 23 % unconsolidated surge in pretax profit to 61.41 billion yen ( $ 429 million ) from 50 billion yen ( $ 349.9 million ) nintendo co. , a japanese maker of video games , electronic information systems and playing cards , posted for the fiscal year ended aug. 31 .
40 % sales surged to 250.17 billion yen from 178.61 billion .
11 % net income rose to 29.62 billion yen from 26.68 billion .
without specific product breakdowns , detailing its bullish upsurge in sales -- including advanced computer games and television entertainment systems -- nintendo credited to surging `` leisure-oriented '' sales in foreign markets .
for instance , 184.74 billion yen export sales for leisure items alone , totaled up from 106.06 billion in the previous fiscal year in the 12 months , .
however , domestic leisure sales , was lower .
merrill lynch capital markets it retained its hertz equipment rental corp. unit to sell hertz corp. of park ridge , n.j. , said .
`` no pressing need the unit , to sell there is but it we is doing so we can concentrate on our core business , automobiles renting in the u.s. and abroad , '' william slider , hertz 's executive vice president said .
`` to sell at the right price we is only going '' .
operating profit before depreciation of $ 90 million on revenue of $ 150 million in 1988 hertz equipment had .
annual revenue of close to $ 2 billion in 1988 , of which $ 1.7 billion was contributed by its hertz rent a car operations world-wide the closely held hertz corp. had .
hertz equipment is a major supplier of rental equipment in the u.s. , france , spain and the u.k .
commercial and industrial equipment including earth-moving , aerial , compaction and electrical equipment , compressors , cranes , forklifts and trucks it supply .
a net loss of $ 2.4 million for the fiscal third quarter ended aug. 31 interspec inc. reported .
the loss resulted from startup and introduction costs related to a new medical ultrasound equipment system it said .
in the year-earlier quarter , net income of $ 955,000 , or 15 cents a share the company reported .
a nine-month net loss of $ 2.43 million compared with net income of $ 2.71 million , or 44 cents a share , for the nine-month period a year earlier the manufacturer of ultrasound diagnostic systems , based in ambler , pa. , reported .
in over-the-counter trading , 37.5 cents interspec fell to $ 4.25 .
third-quarter net of about $ 34 million , or $ 1.50 a share , down from $ 38.4 million , or $ 1.70 a share , a year earlier , to report allegheny ludlum corp. expect institutional investors in new york richard p. simmons , chairman and chief executive officer , told .
sales for the pittsburgh-based producer of specialty steels and other materials fell to about $ 265 million in the third quarter from $ 320.5 million a year earlier , he said .
profit for the nine months of $ 4.65 a share , `` almost equal to the full-year 1988 earnings of $ 108.6 million , or $ 4.81 a share '' the third-quarter estimate indicate he said .
continued improvements in productivity and operating margins the third-quarter results reflect mr. simmons said .
capital spending next year will rise to about $ 45 million from about $ 35 million this year he said .
the expiration date of its $ 7-a-share tender offer for international banknote co. it again extended to nov. 15 u.s. banknote co. said .
u.s. banknote said it is in negotiations `` certain facilities , '' which it did n't name , to sell to a third party , and the extension it need a definitive agreement on the sale to reach to try .
if completed , antitrust issues raised by the u.s. justice department about u.s. banknote 's offer international banknote to buy the sale , apparently would satisfy it believe u.s. banknote said .
`` there can be no assurance '' a sale agreement would be concluded u.s. banknote said .
financing arrangements to complete to be extended further the tender offer would probably have it also said .
the expiration date of its commitment for senior secured financing citibank extended to nov. 15 u.s. banknote said .
the offer , made june 1 , have been extended several times .
the $ 7 a share , or $ 126 million , closely held u.s. banknote offered for as many as 14.9 million shares , or 78.6 % , of international banknote 's shares outstanding .
that as of oct. 13 , 16.1 million shares , or about 84.3 % of the fully diluted shares outstanding , had been tendered u.s. banknote said .
50 % of regatta sport ltd. , a closely held apparel maker , to buy with the assumption of $ 3 million of contingent debt it agreed gitano group inc. said .
under the terms of the contract , the option the remaining 50 % of regatta , a maker of men 's and women 's clothes sold primarily in department stores , to acquire under certain conditions new york-based gitano have .
that 50 % by clifford parker , regatta 's president and chief executive officer , who regatta 's operations to manage under gitano will continue is now held .
in 1989 , sales regatta will have `` in excess of $ 10 million '' and a profit , will show mr. parker said .
its strategy to expand into department stores the regatta acquisition will enhance gitano , which budget-priced apparel sold mainly through mass merchandisers like k mart and wal-mart , make said .
this fall , moderately priced clothes aimed at department stores under the gloria vanderbilt trademark , which gitano recently acquired manufacturing gitano began .
the sale of preference units of its newly formed enron ngl partners l.p. master limited partnership subsidiary will result in an undetermined gain in the fourth quarter enron corp. , houston , said .
in the year-ago quarter , net income of $ 25.2 million , or 34 cents a share , on revenue of about $ 1.46 billion the natural gas concern had .
a $ 2.7 million charge related to the retirement of debt those results included .
in a related move , the number of the partnership 's units it will offer it increased to 6,930,000 from 5,500,000 enron said .
over-allotment provisions the old and revised numbers both include .
each unit will be priced in the $ 19-to-$21 range and about 80 % of the partnership equity will represent enron said .
to be close to $ 200 million net proceeds from the offering is expected .
goldman , sachs & co. , and drexel burnham lambert inc. is lead underwriters .
his unsolicited tender offer of $ 32 a share tender offer , or $ 154.3 million , for di giorgio corp. he extended to nov. 1 arthur m. goldberg said .
that as of the close of business yesterday , 560,839 shares had been tendered dig acquisition corp. , the new jersey investor 's acquisition vehicle , said .
including the stake dig already held , a total of about 25 % of di giorgio 's shares dig hold on a fully diluted basis .
to expire last night at midnight the offer , which common and preferred stock purchase rights , also include was .
the new expiration date is the date on which to expire dig 's financing commitments , which about $ 240 million , total is .
dig is a unit of dig holding corp. , a unit of rose partners l.p .
mr. goldberg is the sole general partner in rose partners .
in august , mr. goldberg 's offer di giorgio , a san francisco food products and building materials marketing and distribution company , rejected as inadequate .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , di giorgio closed down $ 1.75 at $ 31.50 a share , .
after years of fading into the background , two-tone photography is coming back .
stark black-and-white photos of jeans , shoes and liquor hollywood celebrities pitching trendy magazine advertisements feature .
a rush to black-and-white portrait orders portrait studios accustomed to shooting only in color report .
and black-and-white photography classes is crowded with students .
on seventh avenue , the monochrome look designers have been advancing with clothing collections done entirely in black and white .
and a comeback on videocassette tapes , spurred , in part , by the backlash against colorization of old films classic black-and-white movies is enjoying .
`` the pendulum is swinging back to black and white , '' richard demoulin , the general manager of eastman kodak co. 's professional photography division say .
until two years ago , sales of black-and-white film had been declining steadily since the 1960s .
but last year , buoyed by increased use in advertising and other commercial applications , 5 % , sales increased and at least that much to jump again this year they is expected .
the resurging market , to tap some black-and-white product lines reviving and new ones developing photographic companies is scrambling .
at kodak , which the market largely ignored for years , black-and-white film sales now account for nearly 15 % of the company 's $ 3 billion in film and paper sales annually , up from 10 % three years ago .
t-max 3200 , one of the fastest and most sensitive monochrome films marketing the rochester , n.y. , photographic giant recently began .
aimed at commercial photographers , the film can be used in very low light without quality , sacrificing donald franz of photofinishing newsletter say .
a portion of the $ 2 billion-a-year industry to snare agfa corp. , a unit of bayer ag also trying is .
olympic gold medalist florence griffith-joyner a new line of black-and-white paper that 's geared to consumers and will compete directly with kodak 's papers to endorse agfa recently signed .
slated for market by the end of the year , `` the paper could have been introduced a long time ago but the market was n't there then , '' an agfa spokesman say .
the biggest beneficiary of the black-and-white revival is likely to be international paper co. 's ilford division , known in the industry for its premium products .
this year growth in the overall market , sales of ilford 's four varieties of black-and-white film is outpacing although the company wo n't say by exactly how much .
`` the trend last , we hope '' laurie dicara , ilford 's marketing communications director say .
eye-catching and exotic for baby boomers who being photographed in color , grew up black and white seem .
`` an archival , almost nostalgic quality to it , it have '' owen b. butler , the chairman of the applied photography department at rochester institute of technology say .
`` you can shift out of reality with black and white , '' he add .
such features have been especially attractive to professional photographers and marketing executives , who their use of black and white in advertising have been steadily increasing .
gap inc. , black-and-white shots of hollywood stars , artists and other well-known personalities the retailer 's jeans and t-shirts modeling whose latest ad campaign feature consider .
black and white its ads to distinguish from the color spreads of competitors gap did n't intentionally choose richard crisman , the account manager for the campaign , say .
`` the individual , not the environment , to highlight we wanted '' he say , `` and '' you that to do better than color black and white allow .
a cleo award as this year 's best ad by a specialty retailer the campaign won .
the switch even food products and automobiles , which have long depended on color , is making .
`` a stronger statement , black and white will convey companies feel '' marc l. hauser , a chicago photographer who is working on a black-and-white print ad for stouffer food corp. 's lean cuisine say .
american express co. and epson america inc other companies that two-tone ads is currently using include .
portrait studios have also latched onto the trend .
black and white , using `` housewives look like stars , we can make '' john perrin say .
its business his on-broadway photography studio in portland , ore. , doubled last year and , he say , solid is booked for the next five .
a color portrait she spurned for black and white because `` it be more dramatic one customer , dayna brunsdon , say .
it i show to my friends , and wow they all say ` ' .
it is n't ordinary like color . ''
black-and-white film most consumers still , is n't plunking into their cameras family snapshots to take .
that the film few drugstores develop anymore one big obstacle is .
it typically , must be mailed to a handful of processors and to be processed and returned may take a week or more .
a little less than color film , black-and-white film cost consumers and the same processing cost .
but for photofinishers , developing costs for black-and-white film is higher .
that problem to tackle some companies is starting .
for example , a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs ilford , recently introduced .
intent on customers , wooing its sponsorship of black-and-white photography classes the company is also increasing .
scores of photography contests at high schools and colleges , agfa similarly , is sponsoring free black-and-white film and paper offering as prizes .
and an instructional video kodak is distributing to processors on its monochrome film how to develop more efficiently .
related products other companies is introducing .
a complete darkroom starter kit at teen-agers who their own black-and-white photographs to process want targeted charles beseler co. , a leading maker of photographic enlargers , introduced last month .
the kit , which a suggested retail price of $ 250 have and a bestseller , has already become was introduced after numerous requests from parents for children 's photography equipment retailers noticed .
`` computers as hobbies have waned , it seem '' ian brightman , beseler 's chairman and chief executive officer say .
but the resurgence of black and white is only a fad some industry observers believe .
the emergence of still electronic photography , more newspapers turning to color on their pages and measurable improvements in the quality of color prints they cite .
`` the same quantum leaps in technological development as color , black and white have n't made '' mr. butler of the rochester institute say .
`` today the color print is far superior to prints of 10 years ago .
but 15 of the greatest photos ever made popular photography , a leading magazine for photographers , when selected for its latest issue photography 's 150th anniversary , celebrating all were black and white .
`` a classic spirit it be got and carry over emotionally , '' alfred debat of professional photographers of america say .
`` that be the appeal .
improvements in advertising and subscription revenue led to a 21 % gain in third-quarter profit to $ 8.8 million , or 31 cents a share , from $ 7.2 million , or 25 cents a share mcclatchy newspapers inc. said .
more than 7 % sales rose to $ 94.9 million from $ 88.3 million .
improved performance the sacramento , calif. , company also attributed to a lower effective tax rate and higher interest income .
for the nine months , almost a 23 % increase in profit to $ 23.6 million , or 83 cents a share , from $ 19.2 million , or 68 cents a share the newspaper chain had .
almost 7 % sales grew to $ 279.1 million from $ 261.3 million .
the sacramento ( calif . ) bee and tacoma ( wash . ) news tribune , and other papers in western states mcclatchy publish .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , the company closed down 25 cents at $ 25.25 a share , .
an offer gatoil suisse s.a to buy agip s.p . a. and societe national elf aquitaine , the state oil companies of italy and france , respectively , submitted .
the price was n't disclosed .
that the offer , submitted last friday , along with two other offers , also submitted last week the swiss oil concern was examining a spokesman for gatoil said .
those two offers was private and the bidding companies to identify the spokesman refused .
that at least two more offers is expected from other companies within two weeks the spokesman further said .
an oil refinery in switzerland with a capacity of 70,000 barrels a day , gatoil suisse own along with a network of gasoline retailing outlets .
while new fears about the economy 's prospects , friday 's plunging stock market prompted a little-known indicator that the economy 's ups and downs have faithfully foreshadowed by exceptionally long lead times point to a sustained rise in overall business activity .
a record high of 223.0 the barometer , developed here , by analysts at columbia university 's center for international business cycle research reached in august , the latest month available , and that it have moved even higher since then the columbia researchers estimate .
the latest reading of 223.0 was up from 222.3 in july and 215.3 as recently as march .
the fifth straight monthly gain for the indicator , which the 1967 average use as a base of 100 the august rise marked .
in contrast , while up in august , the commerce department 's widely followed index of leading indicators , have fallen repeatedly since a high reaching early this year .
some forecasters the start of a new recession to anticipate perhaps before year 's end its ragged behavior through much of 1989 have prompted .
but `` a recession any time soon highly unlikely , the far stronger showing of the columbia index make '' geoffrey h. moore , the director of the columbia facility say .
a leading authority on the business cycle , also mr. moore is a member of the business cycle dating group , the panel of private economists that decide for the government expansions and recessions when begin and end .
the group normally convene likely a change in the economy 's general course only when seem .
`` no meeting is scheduled because no sign of going off the tracks , the expansion show '' mr. moore report .
based largely on the recent strength in their index , the long leading indicator , called uninterrupted economic growth the columbia analysts foresee through the rest of this year and next year as well .
a 2.6 % rise in 1990 in the gross national product , they expect after adjustment for inflation .
this optimism the index 's longstanding ability recessions or recoveries , to signal as the case may be , by substantially greater periods than the commerce department 's index of leading indicators underlying is .
over the full post-world war ii era , on the average , sustained declines the columbia index , have entered 14 months before the onset of recessions and turned up eight months before recoveries .
the comparable lead times for the commerce index , the stock market , whose components include is far shorter -- 10 months before recessions and only three months before recoveries .
the long leading index before the stock market crash in october that the great depression ushered in how would have behaved , it had existed , in 1929 , the columbia economists also have reconstructed .
a peak the indicator reached in january 1929 and then fell steadily up to and through the crash .
`` it was an entirely different pattern from what we 're seeing now , '' mr. moore say .
in august , the bond measure was at its highest monthly average since early 1987 .
it also rose last friday , while the stock market sagged .
a ratio of prices to unit labor costs in manufacturing industries , the m2 version of the money supply , adjusted for inflation , and the volume of new home-building permits other components of the long leading indicator include .
notably absent from the columbia index the stock market , which `` is simply no longer such a good indicator of the economy 's long-range prospects , though still it is useful for some short-run twists and turns anticipating '' mr. moore say is .
the stock market -- as reflected in the standard & poor 's index of 500 common stocks -- as recently as 1975 , was rated by the national bureau of economic research as the best of the 12 leading indicators that the commerce index then made up .
a mark of 80 out of a possible 100 , it was assigned compared with scores ranging as low as 69 for the other components .
some precursory power , the stock market have lost analysts at the columbia center claim , because of the growing impact of international developments .
`` more sensitive to factors not directly tied to the domestic economy , stocks have become '' the exchange rate for the dollar on currency markets , the foreign-trade balance and inflows of foreign capital citing mr. moore say , .
that the stock market 's relevancy to the economic outlook the rise of such computer-based practices as program trading have diminished he also feel .
birkel g.m.b . h. , a west german pasta maker to acquire it agreed bsn s.a. , a leading french food group , said .
the value of the acquisition was n't disclosed .
the move is in line with bsn 's strategy of its share of the european pasta market gradually building through external growth .
a 15 % interest in birkel , a closely held concern bsn will initially acquire .
an agreement the right all the shares outstanding , to buy giving it the french group have and this could be completed within a few months , a bsn spokeswoman said .
the takeover was submitted for approval by the west german cartel office , bsn said .
birkel is west germany 's second-biggest producer of pasta , with sales of 250 million marks ( $ 133.4 million ) in 1988 .
750 workers it have at three production units in southwest germany , and is that nation 's leading producer of pasta sauces .
bsn 's position in the european pasta market the acquisition strengthen .
the french group currently rank second after barilla group of italy , whose sales is chiefly in the italian market .
its rating on $ 281 million of senior and subordinated debt of this thrift holding company , it reduced to c from ca , only `` negligible principal '' bondholders will recover it believe saying moody 's investors service inc. said .
american continental 's preferred stock rating it confirmed at c the agency said .
american continental 's thrift unit , los angeles-based lincoln savings & loan association , is in receivership and the parent company have filed for protection from creditor lawsuits under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code .
its ratings on the subordinated debt of centrust moody 's investors service inc. downgraded to caa from b-3 .
the ratings for long-term deposits the rating agency also reduced to b-3 from ba-3 and for preferred stock to ca from caa .
about $ 85 million in securities was affected the rating agency said .
the downgrades was prompted , moody 's said , by the continuing turmoil in the junk bond market and the suspension of dividends on centrust 's preferred stock .
if completed , the thrift 's funding and market position the proposed sale of 63 centrust branches to great western bank could , endanger it believed moody 's also said .
a repeat of black monday the stock market avoided as prices recovered from an early slide , spurred by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
the dow jones industrials closed up 88.12 points , at 2657.38 , the fourth-biggest gain ever , after being down as much as 63.52 points in the morning .
about half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , the rally erased but analysts is cautious about the market 's outlook .
the dollar also rebounded , while bond prices plummeted and treasury bill rates soared .
junk bonds also recovered somewhat , though stalled trading remained .
gold also rose .
a 1.8 % plunge on monday following tokyo stock prices bounced back in early trading tuesday .
the dollar also moved higher in tokyo .
his $ 7.54 billion offer for american air , donald trump withdrew the `` recent change in market conditions '' citing .
$ 22.125 , amr slid to $ 76.50 .
financing to get for a lower bid , possibly $ 250 a share a ual group also , tried .
$ 56.875 , ual fell to $ 222.875 .
30 % slightly more than expected ibm 's earnings tumbled in the third quarter , .
a stronger dollar and a delay in a new high-end disk drive shipping the computer giant partly cited .
analysts is downbeat about ibm 's outlook for the next few quarters .
10.4 % to decrease car production in the fourth quarter , with virtually all the decline coming from the big three u.s. auto makers plan .
output at japanese-owned and managed plants in the u.s. is due 42 % to rise .
much leeway in with gramm-rudman spending cuts , which effect took yesterday coping he wo n't give federal agencies budget director darman said .
congress a deficit plan to finish to prod darman hope .
the s&l bailout agency would be restricted by a new bill in capital it how raise .
another possible obstacle sick thrifts to selling the ways and means plan would create .
a natural gas rule was struck down by a federal appeals court .
pipeline firms the regulation had prevented from part of $ 1 billion in costs passing along to customers .
whether a merger that regulatory approval have won but anticompetitive been ruled in a private suit a federal court may dismantle to decide the supreme court agreed .
37 % merrill lynch 's profit slid in the third quarter .
a 7.5 % gain , bear stearns posted while a decline due to a year-ago gain painewebber had .
to return to the name manpower and a big write-off take blue arrow of britain plan .
its dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market the firm solidify the moves may help .
a $ 1.82 billion loss for the third quarter , j.p. morgan posted a big addition to loan-loss reserves reflecting .
ncnb 's profit more than doubled .
pace membership warehouse to acquire for $ 322 million , its presence in the growing wholesale-store business expanding k mart agreed .
the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below is a guide to general levels but actual transactions do n't always represent .
reserves traded among commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $ 1 million or more .
the minimum unit is $ 100,000 .
these rate indications is n't directly comparable ; lending practices vary widely by location .
an agreement with alliant computer systems corp. software standards to develop for intel 's i860 microprocessor it reached intel corp. said .
the i860 , introduced earlier this year , is intel 's entry in the crowded market for reduced instruction set computing , or risc , computers .
intel , based in santa clara , calif. , is the market leader for traditional microprocessors with its 8086 family that the heart of ibm-compatible personal computers form .
under the agreement , $ 3 million intel will invest a 4 % stake in alliant , a maker of minisupercomputers for scientists and engineers to acquire .
its parallel-computing technologies alliant , based in littleton , mass. , will license to intel , a way many i860 microprocessors in a single computer work simultaneously on a problem to let providing users .
the microprocessor to use in future products it plan alliant said .
its plans for its current product line upgrading to discuss it declined .
a cotton and gauze products division it acquired from closely held sterile products corp. for $ 8.2 million omnicare inc. , which its position in the medical and dental markets , to expand intends said .
`` substantial sales volume '' the division to add and a positive contribution to our earnings to make in 1990 and beyond it expect omnicare said .
in 1988 $ 3.1 million , or 32 cents a share , the cincinnati company earned on revenue of $ 148.5 million .
the division operate under the trade name acco and the medical and dental markets supply omnicare said .
sales of more than $ 14 million the business , based in st. louis , had in the fiscal year ended march 31 , omnicare said .
a 6.7 % stake in the company shv holdings n.v. of the netherlands have built up burmah oil plc , a british independent oil and specialty chemicals marketing concern , said .
`` a little under 5 % '' of burmah shv had previously owned for about two years james alexander , a burmah spokesman , said .
burmah the dutch company had n't notified of its reason for the stake , increasing he said .
shv , which last year its north sea oil and gas operations merged with those of calor group plc , have been pegged by speculators as a possible suitor for burmah oil in recent weeks .
40 % of calor shv also own .
a 17 % rise in net income to # 43.5 million ( $ 68.3 million ) in the first half burmah , which the castrol brand of lubricant oils , own reported .
a definitive agreement its builders ' hardware group to sell to closely held nalcor inc. of beverly hills , calif it signed j.p. industries inc. said .
terms was n't disclosed , but a j.p. industries spokesman said the amount j.p. industries will get for the group is `` a little better than expected by the marketplace , and $ 25 million to $ 30 million the marketplace had been expecting '' .
the group consist of weslock corp. and jpi modern inc .
a previously announced program itself to divest of its hardware and plumbing supplies operations the sale complete j.p. industries , which is based in ann arbor , mich. , said .
the company 's remaining business is the manufacture and sale of engine and transmissions products for industrial and transportation applications .
a $ 3.1 million provision for doubtful accounts , citing a loss for its fourth quarter ended june 30 dallas-based national heritage inc. posted .
a unit of troubled southmark corp. , a net loss of $ 1.6 million , or nine cents a share , it sustained compared with net income of $ 1.3 million , or eight cents a share , a year earlier the operator of nursing homes and retirement centers said .
13 % operating revenue rose to $ 22.2 million from $ 19.7 million in the year-earlier quarter .
doubt about the collectability of receivables owed to national heritage by some of the real estate partnerships it manage to reflect the $ 3.1 million reserve was created the company said .
expenses incurred by the previous board and management in the recent contest for control was recognized primarily in the first quarter ended sept. 30 the company also said .
12.5 cents national heritage stock fell yesterday to close at $ 1.375 a share in new york stock exchange composite trading .
the creation of a european group its trading interests in the region to bring together united biscuits ( holdings ) plc , a british food producer , announced .
all of united biscuit 's manufacturing and marketing operations in the food sector apart from those based in the u.s. the new group will comprise .
annual sales of more than # 1.5 billion ( $ 2.35 billion ) and trading profit of more than # 160 million ( $ 251 million ) the combined group , which businesses such as mcvities biscuits and terry 's confectionery , will include will have united biscuits said .
`` united biscuits to focus clearly upon opportunities for planned growth during the 1990s , the new structure will enable '' bob clarke , deputy chairman and group chief executive said .
last month , its entire restaurant operations to sell to grand metropolitan plc for # 180 million united biscuits agreed .
trial an american journalist now is standing in namibia .
this is the place that over world opinion have been celebrating in the expectation that an election to hold it be going .
that the head of the commission charged with the election 's fairness , overseeing bryan o'linn , was openly sympathetic to swapo the u.s. journalist 's `` crime '' was writing .
shortly after that , scott stanley arrested and his passport confiscated mr. o'linn had .
mr. stanley is on trial over charges that a proclamation , issued by the south african administrator general earlier this year , which a crime punishable by two years in prison for `` it any person to insult , disparate or belittle '' the election commission made he violated .
the stanley affair do n't bode well for the future of democracy or freedom of anything in namibia the government running swapo when start .
to the extent anything wrong , mr. stanley have done that he is out of step with the consensus of world intellectuals that the namibian guerrillas was above all else the victims of suppression by neighboring south africa it may be .
favorable western media treatment swapo have enjoyed since it the `` sole , authentic representative '' of namibia 's people in the u.n. general assembly ever declared
last year , a peace settlement the u.s. brokered cuba 's `` afrika korps '' to remove from angola and `` free and fair '' elections that south africa 's control of namibia would end hold .
the elections is set for nov. 7 .
in july , namibia mr. stanley , editor of american press international , a washington d.c.-based conservative wire service , visited to report on the u.n.-monitored election campaign .
mr. o'linn , head of a commission charged with electoral intimidation , investigating he interviewed and that mr. o'linn was openly sympathetic to swapo and its leaders indeed had defended in court reported .
after mr. stanley 's article was published in two namibian newspapers , criminal charges mr. o'linn had brought against their editors , publisher and lawyer .
mr. stanley was arrested along with the others and charged he when returned to namibia this month .
mr. stanley 's detention both the state department and the lawyers committee for freedom of the press have protested .
mr. stanley 's arrest is the latest in a series of incidents that namibia 's elections to derail threaten .
voters both south african and swapo extremists is intimidating .
the u.s. is in the habit of peace settlements arranging and its hands then washing over the tragic results .
the chance that record to redress in namibia it now have .
that mr. stanley and his fellow defendants be released and that certain that election complaints from all sides mr. o'linn's commission investigate the united nation 's monitors make state and the human-rights community should insist .
the stability of the stock market commodity futures prices generally reflected following its plunge friday .
yesterday , at first nervousness the stock market 's influence created .
more of an undercurrent than a dominating force it later , however , became as individual markets reacted more to their own factors .
its inverse lockstep with the dollar , gold , the traditional haven in times of financial crisis , continued rising early in the day as the currency fell , and some of its gains then giving up as the dollar recovered .
copper and crude oil reacted sharply to the concern that yesterday a potentially devastating effect on the economy a crash could have .
copper fell and little rebound showed through the day as to be solved one of the major supply problems that prices had been supporting appeared .
crude oil declined early , but as early gains , the stock market retained stronger , ending with a small net loss it , too , became .
trading in cotton and sugar was nervous and small declines showed .
in chicago , grain and soybean prices rose slightly .
livestock and meat prices , however , dropped on concern that consumption of beef and pork a financial crisis would cut .
in commodity markets yesterday : precious metals : futures prices was moderately higher as some of its early gains gold gave up and first falling and then later rising platinum behaved independently , .
silver performed quietly .
$ 4 the spot october gold price rose to $ 367.30 an ounce .
the more active december delivery gold settled with a gain of $ 3.90 an ounce at $ 371.20 , after trading as high as $ 374 .
december silver was up 2.3 cents an ounce at $ 5.163 .
easing early on concern over a possible weaker economy , but recovering later , as the stock market strengthened platinum behaved more like an industrial metal , .
gold was nowhere the spectacular performer it was two years ago on black monday .
for one thing , last friday , precious metals markets closed before the stock market went into its late-in-the-day nose dive , so it could n't react to it .
the stock market back on friday , oct. 16 , l987 , declined during the day , and gold prices surged as the stock market fell .
that day as much as $ 8.70 the october 1987 contract rose to as high as $ 471.60 , and as much as $ 9.60 the more deferred positions , due to mature as late as march 1989 , rose .
on black monday , oct. 19 , 1987 , further gains , the october contract tacked on rising to as high as $ 491.50 for a gain of almost $ 20 on top of the friday advances , before almost $ 10 of that giving up at the close .
yesterday 's october gain of $ 4 was miniscule compared with that .
some good price-supporting technical factors that prices to rise , would have caused with or without the stock market the gold market already had one analyst , peter cardillo of josephthal & co. , new york , said .
`` the rise place to take earlier than it would have happened , what the stock market did was cause '' mr. cardillo said .
a good chance that its gains gold will retain and rise further , there be he said .
a drop in interest rates , which gold would help by the dollar keeping from rising he expect .
according to mr. cardillo , the impact of the strong dollar finally , should be reflected in reduced exports in the august merchandise trade deficit , the figures when is released today .
be this would damaging to the dollar and supportive for gold , he said .
that friday 's 190-point stock market plunge might be a harbinger of things to come for the economy , worried a halt to the recent string of increases in crude oil futures prices petroleum futures traders called .
the u.s. benchmark crude , west texas intermediate , closed down 30 cents at $ 20.59 a barrel for november delivery , .
crude was due for a correction anyhow , following several days of significant gains some analysts said .
but that what spirits in the petroleum pits dampened yesterday friday 's stock market drop is most market observers agreed .
until yesterday , futures prices had been headed up on expectations that to be strong world oil demand will continue .
its production ceiling for the fourth quarter the organization of petroleum exporting countries increased based on projections of robust demand .
so shivers any bearish indicator , such as friday 's precipitous drop in the stock market , send as well through the oil markets .
after reacting early in the trading day to friday 's plummet , futures prices indeed , firmed up again as note traders took of the stock market 's partial recovery yesterday .
futures prices fell and little rebound showed as to be solved one major labor problem that prices had been underpinning appeared .
3.05 cents a pound the december contract declined to $ 1.2745 .
prices was down from the outset of trading on concern that a weakened economy and a consequent reduction in copper use a drop in the stock market might create .
but little help for copper the recovery in the stock market provided as that a three-month strike at the highland valley mine in british columbia was about over , word spread according to an analyst .
highland valley is a large canadian producer and principal supplier to japan , which copper seeking elsewhere as its inventories shrank recently began .
last week that the major hurdle , the contracting out of work by the company company and union negotiations had overcome it was reported .
the analyst said , to be cleaned up only minor points now , remain .
`` for all intents and purposes , to have been achieved , an agreement appear '' he said .
copper inventories in new york 's commodity exchange warehouses rose yesterday by 516 tons , to 10,004 tons .
last week 13,575 tons , london metal exchange copper inventories declined to 89,300 tons .
about as expected , the lme stocks decline was but the comex gain was n't .
this however , was brushed aside by concern over the stock market , the analyst said .
at one point in futures trading , as the stock market firmed , the december contract rose to as high as $ 1.2965 , but it was n't able the gain to sustain .
`` it was simply overbought , '' he said , and prices depress by funds that computer is guided selling helped .
futures prices eased , more in reaction to hurricane jerry than to any influence of the stock market .
the december contract ended with a loss of 0.22 cent a pound , at 74.48 cents .
prices to decline yesterday , technical considerations following the hurricane , which was a factor in the market friday , caused ernest simon , cotton specialist for prudential-bache securities , new york said .
prices rose sharply friday as the storm approached texas and louisiana , which is part of the mississippi delta cotton-growing area .
after the potential effect of the hurricane , absorbing to slip late friday , prices however , began mr. simon said .
that selling continued yesterday and prices under pressure , kept he said .
colder weather is being predicted for the high plains of texas and the northern states of the delta during the coming weekend , mr. simon said .
traders ' attention , that have n't yet captured he added .
futures prices declined .
the march contract was off 0.32 cent a pound at 13.97 cents .
at one point in early trading the march price rose to as high as 14.22 cents the stock market when recovered , but the price then fell back .
one analyst said , that any purchases india , which around 200,000 tons of sugar to buy in the world market , had been expected did n't make a price-depressing factor , was .
200,000 tons india recently bought and more , to buy was expected the analyst said .
that india may have pulled back because of the concern over the stock market another analyst thought .
`` that if a severe drop in the stock market there was and sugar , it affected it could buy at lower prices , india may have felt '' judith ganes , analyst for shearson lehman hutton , new york said .
at any rate , she added , `` the sugar , india need so it to buy it will be in sooner or later '' .
the prices of cattle and hog futures contracts dropped sharply because that friday the stock market plunge will linger long enough them their spending at the supermarket , to rein in which demand for beef and pork would hurt to prompt in the minds of u.s. consumers traders speculated .
its maximum permissible daily limit of 1.5 cents a pound the price of the hog contract for october delivery dropped .
the prices of most grain futures contracts rose slightly yesterday out of relief that signs of recovering the stock market was showing .
earlier in the session , new lows the prices of several soybean contracts set .
a broad rally began futures contracts , buying advantage apparently to take of the price dip several major processors when began .
increased earnings per share contrary to reported analysts ' comments that the publishing company 's earnings would be down it would report for the third quarter , knight-ridder inc. said .
the confusion was caused new york analysts that knight-ridder 's earnings per share for the first nine months of 1989 would `` be behind a little bit '' from like period of james batten , knight-ridder 's chairman and chief executive , when told two weeks ago he believed a company spokesman said
to be up the third-quarter earnings that to report oct. 24 the company plan is expected the knight-ridder spokesman said .
he was `` comfortable '' with revised analysts ' projections that earnings of between 62 cents and 64 cents a share , the company would report compared with the 53 cents a share it reported for the 1988 third quarter the spokesman said .
it agreed with estimates that net income for all of 1989 would be around $ 2.86 a share , compared with $ 2.59 a share a year earlier knight-ridder said .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , knight-ridder closed down 37.5 cents at $ 51.75 , .
its $ 45-a-share offer for dunkin ' donuts inc. it extended to nov. 1 from yesterday dd acquisition corp. said .
an indicated value of $ 268 million the offer have .
dd acquisition is a partnership of unicorp canada corp. 's kingsbridge capital group unit and cara operations ltd .
as previously reported , under the terms of a confidentiality agreement with dunkin ' donuts , their offer open until nov. 1 , to keep and any additional shares not to acquire except through a tender offer expiring on that date the partners agreed .
that 15 % of the common shares of the doughnut shop chain it already own and that as of the close of business friday an additional 11 % had been tendered to its offer dd acquisition said .
dunkin ' donuts is based in randolph , mass .
cara operations , a food services concern , and unicorp , a holding company with interests in oil and natural gas and financial services , is based in toronto .
a 16 % increase of third-quarter earnings golden west financial corp. , above the turbulence that most of the thrift industry , have troubled riding posted to $ 41.8 millon , or 66 cents a share .
$ 36 million , or 57 cents a share , the company earned in the year-ago quarter .
the high number of loans added to the company 's portfolio over the last 12 months herbert m. sandler , chairman and chief executive officer of the oakland , calif. , savings-and-loan holding company , credited for its earning asset base broadening and profit performance improving .
that new loan originations slackening demand for new mortgages depressed to $ 1 billion , 30 % below the same period last year the executive however , noted .
in savings activity , a steady increase consumer deposits have enjoyed throughout 1989 , and $ 11 billion topped at quarter 's end for the first time in the company 's history mr. sandler said .
deposit growth amounted to $ 393 million , more than double the year-ago figure .
a process environmentally harmful chlorofluorocarbons , or cfcs , that the atmosphere previously entered during in-home repair of refrigerators and freezers to recover it have developed whirlpool corp. , benton harbor , mich. , said .
the process , which the use of a multilayer plastic bag during repairs the gaseous substance to capture and transport it to a recycling center , involve is already in use at a number of its service centers , and will be available to all authorized repair centers by spring the maker of home appliances said .
the cfcs earlier repairs vented out of the home through a hose directly into the atmosphere .
cfcs is widely used as solvents , coolants and fire suppressants .
but their use have been linked to a potentially dangerous depletion of the earth 's ozone layer , and use , or at least emission , of the substance to curtail a number of companies is seeking .
`` this process we see as a small but important step toward eventual elimination of cfc use in appliance manufacture whirpool said , .
a new oil field it discovered northeast of its previously discovered intan field in the southeast sumatra area of indonesia maxus energy corp. , dallas , said .
a production test it did n't run on the three discovery wells it drilled in the field , which is about 1.6 miles from the intan field , because the wells is similar to others drilled at its intan and widuri fields maxus said .
the reserves in the field is about 10 million barrels of oil it believe maxus however , said .
reserves of 50 million barrels the intan field have estimated and reserves of 225 million barrels the widuri field have estimated .
maxus , an independent oil and gas concern , is the operator and a 56 % interest in the new field , northeast intan called own .
other interests is owned by bp petroleum development ( ses ) ltd. , c. itoh energy co. ltd. , deminex sumatra oel g.m.b . h. , hispanoil ( sumatra ) production ltd. , hudbay oil ( indonesia ) ltd. , inpex sumatra co. ltd. , lasmo sumatra ltd. , sunda shell , tcr sumat a.g. and warrior oil co .
the production-sharing contract area is held with pertamina , the indonesian state oil company .
its results it is restating its reported net income for the first nine months of its fiscal year to reduce after tax credits that already had been taken last year it took discovering environmental systems co. said .
its net for the nine months ended july 31 the restatement will reduce to $ 2.5 million , or 17 cents a share , from $ 3.7 million , or 26 cents a share the little rock , ark. , hazardous-waste services company said .
net of $ 2.3 million , or 15 cents a share the company previously reported .
that for financial reporting purposes last year tax credits that will be recognized for tax purposes this year it took the company said .
but because of confusion , those credits it took again in its results through the first nine months reporting .
the company 's effective tax rate the change increase to about 35 % from 20 % jack w. forrest , environmental systems president and chief executive officer , said .
a definitive merger agreement with isi systems inc. under which isi memotec will acquire for $ 20 ( u.s. . ) a share , or about $ 130 million , in cash and securities it signed memotec data inc. said .
in american stock exchange composite trading , isi closed up $ 3.125 at $ 18.625 .
in montreal exchange trading , memotec closed unchanged at 10.625 canadian dollars ( us$ 9.05 ) .
under the agreement , isi , a braintree , mass. , provider of computer software and services to the insurance industry , will merge with a u.s. unit of memotec created for that purpose memotec said .
memotec is a montreal-based maker of telecommunications products and provider of telecommunications and computer services .
the agreement call for a $ 20-a-share cash tender offer for all shares outstanding of isi it to make memotec said .
but his 60 % stake in isi to sell to memotec upon completion of the tender offer for a combination of cash , memotec stock and debentures charles johnston , isi chairman and president , agreed it said .
the tender offer is conditioned on , among other things , holders at least 15 % of the shares outstanding , other than the shares held by mr. johnston tendering memotec said .
management its board have instructed inquiries from any others interested in a bid making to accept isi said .
it can withdraw from the merger agreement with memotec if a better bid surface isi said .
the purchase of its common stock it have resumed under a program approved by its directors in 1987 cms energy corp. , jackson , mich. , said .
at the time of the original announcement , the purchase of as many as five million of its shares its board authorized cms said .
2.6 million shares have been purchased since then a spokesman said .
additional shares it will buy `` from time to time '' in the open market or in private transactions at prevailing market prices the company said .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , cms energy closed down 62.5 cents , from the closing price of $ 37.375 a share on thursday , before friday 's plunge at $ 34.375 a share , .
about 82.1 million shares outstanding the utility company currently have .
morgan stanley & co. will act as the exclusive broker for the repurchase .
the electro-optics technology division of perkin-elmer corp to purchase it agreed hughes aircraft co. , a unit of general motors corp. , said .
terms of the agreement was n't disclosed .
but for the fiscal year ended july 31 , 1988 , the most recent period for which results was broken out , the perkin-elmer unit accounted for more than half the $ 145 million in sales recorded by the company 's government systems sector .
the sale of the danbury , conn. , unit is consistent with its restructuring strategy announced in april perkin-elmer , which is based in norwalk , conn. , said .
in addition electro-optical systems , to making laser warning receivers the unit also make .
pilots that a laser weapon have been focused on them to warn these is used aboard military helicopters .
efforts by its electro-optical and data systems group , which infrared sensors , military lasers and night vision equipment make the perkinelmer unit 's work complement hughes of los angeles said .
the sale to close by year end it expect hughes said .
a new regional contract and all but one of the local agreements with bell atlantic corp the communications workers of america ratified .
the tentative agreement cwa 's new jersey commercial local , which about 2,500 service representatives and marketing employees , represent rejected .
differences to resolve they was working together both the union and the regional telephone company said .
41,000 bell atlantic employees the new three-year contracts , which ones that expired aug. 5 , replace cover .
a 23-day strike against the philadelphia-based company the ratification follow .
cwa and international brotherhood of electrical workers members meanwhile , remain on strike against nynex corp. , the new york-based regional phone company .
last week the unions and the company agreed to mediation .
40,000 nynex workers the cwa represent and 20,000 workers the ibew represent .
for the moment , anxiety euphoria at least , have replaced on wall street .
to close at 2657.38 , the world 's markets , panic did n't sweep the dow jones industrial average jumped sharply yesterday and friday 's dizzying 190-point plunge to accept as a sharp correction , not a calamity investors large and small seemed .
among those sighing with relief john h. gutfreund , chairman of salomon brothers , who yesterday 's events to monitor took to the firm 's trading floor was .
as strength the rally gained at 3:15 p.m. , he smiled broadly , his unlit cigar brandished and stanley shopkorn , his top stock trader , slapped on the back .
at first , it seemed as if itself history might repeat .
as trading opened yesterday morning on the big board , stocks of many of the nation 's biggest companies could n't open for trading because buyers a wave of sell orders was overwhelming .
by 10:10 , the dow industrials was off 63.52 points , and the stock of ual corp. , friday 's plunge , whose troubles had kicked off still had n't opened .
but to turn around it then , as quickly as the dow had fallen , began .
it ended with a gain of 88.12 points .
by the market 's close , more than 416 million , the fourth highest on record volume on the new york exchange totaled .
the huge volume the big board handled without any obvious strain , in sharp contrast to black monday of 1987 .
but the rally to the blue-chip stocks , which had been hard hit during friday 's selling frenzy was largely confined .
overall , money more big board stocks lost than gained .
and many arbitragers , already reeling from friday 's collapse of the ual deal , was further hurt yesterday a proposed takeover of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines , when collapsed .
102.06 points , the dow jones transportation average indeed , plunged its second-worst drop in history .
world-wide , trading was generally manageable .
the frankfurt stock exchange was hardest hit of the major markets , with 12.8 % blue chips there falling .
in london , the market 's major index off 3.2 % , a midday rally left and only 1.8 % tokyo 's leading stock index fell in surprisingly lackluster trading .
other , more thinly traded asian markets was hit harder than tokyo 's , but no free-fall declines there was .
valuable lessons they learned since the 1987 crash investors big and small say : in this age of computerized trading , huge corrections or runups in a few hours ' time must be expected .
what 's more , such short-term cataclysms is survivable and are no cause for panic selling .
`` less panic than in 1987 there was : we had been through it once '' stephen boesel , a major money manager for t. rowe price in baltimore , say , .
in somerset , wis. , adrian sween , who a supplier of nursing-home equipment own and is n't active in the stock market , agree .
`` i look at it as a ho-hum matter , '' he say .
a part many other factors played in yesterday 's comeback .
its willingness liquidity to provide the federal reserve signaled ; the interest rate on its loans to major banks inched downward early in the day .
foreign stock markets , which kicked off black monday with a huge selling spree , began off by relatively modest amounts the day .
after falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen , fears that u.s. stocks foreigners would unload thus easing the dollar , bounced back strongly to 141.8 , .
and investors calm the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that a crash was n't in store also helped .
for example , ready some of the blue chips had been sharply undervalued on friday they felt to buy many major institutions , came into work yesterday .
amid all the backslapping and signs of relief over yesterday 's events , that nothing present in the current market system another dizzying drop such as friday 's to prevent there is some market professionals still , cautioned .
`` too much complacency , there is '' money manager barry schrager say .
computers have increasingly connected securities markets world-wide , so that a buying or selling wave in one market is often passed around the globe .
yesterday 's opening in tokyo , the nikkei average of 225 blue-chip stocks where got off to a rocky start investors everywhere so nervously eyed .
some 600 points , or 1.7 % , the average plunged in the first 20 minutes of trading .
but no conviction , the selling wave had and the market first surged upward by 200 points , closing down 647 then drifted lower , .
in merrill lynch & co. 's tokyo trading room , some 40 traders and assistants sat quietly , with few orders to process .
`` all clients is staying '' out of the market , one merrill trader say .
little comfort to markets opening up in europe the relative calm in tokyo proved .
frankfurt 's opening was delayed a half hour because of a crush of sell orders .
`` the beginning was chaotic , '' nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank say
in london , also the view from the trading floor of an american securities firm , jefferies & co. , was troubling .
a computer screen 100 blue-chip stocks displaying colors each one red its price when is falling .
the screen was a sea of red .
`` concern , i see but panic , i do n't see '' j. francis palamara , a new yorker who the 15-trader office run say .
an encouraging message sending to wall street london 's blue-chip stock index turned up just before 8 a.m . new york time , .
trading when opened in new york at 9:30 a.m. edt , stocks fell sharply -- as expected .
futures markets in chicago had opened at a level the dow would fall by about 60 points suggesting .
with sell orders piled up from friday , about half the stocks in the dow could n't open on time .
by 9:45 , 27 points the industrial average had dropped .
by 10 a.m. , it was down 49 .
bottom the dow ten minutes later , hit down 63.52 points , another 2.5 % - .
but shortly before then , a turn they sensed some of wall street 's sharpest traders say , .
`` treasury bonds was off , the first thing that my eye caught that was encouraging was '' austin george , head of stock trading at t. rowe price say .
`` that people was n't running pell-mell to the safety of bonds it meant '' .
shortly after 10 a.m. , the major market index , a chicago board of trade futures contract of 20 stocks the djia , to mimic designed exploded upward .
stock traders was buoyed -- because the recovery in stocks an upturn in the mmi had also started on the tuesday following black monday .
`` the mmi have gone better , '' a trader in the london office of shearson lehman hutton shouted .
wild shearson 's london trading room went .
an ever-narrowing loss on wall street their reuters , quotron and telerate screens as posted traders shouted out .
wall street then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day .
`` rally , rally , rally , '' shearson 's andy rosen shouted .
`` this is panic buying . ''
the rally major blue-chip stocks like philip morris , general motors and proctor & gamble led .
to be heavy buyers japanese was said .
german and dutch investors reportedly loaded up on kellogg co .
traders say , gains in , among other issues , alcan aluminium and mcdonald 's triggering corporations with share buy-back programs then , kicked into high gear , .
walt disney co. , which one of the biggest sell-order imbalances had on friday and was one of seven stocks that trading halted and never reopened that day , opened late down 8.5 yesterday at 114.5 , .
but 7.5 it then suddenly burst upward as goldman , sachs & co. stepped in and almost every share offer , bought traders said .
by 10:25 , cheers prompting on trading desks and exchange floors the dow had turned up for the day , .
among big board specialists , `` your offers pull '' meaning that higher prices to get for their shares specialists soon expected the cry was -- .
`` it was bedlam on the upside , '' one big board specialist said .
buying from wall street 's `` black boxes , '' computer programs large stock purchases to trigger during bullish periods designed this technical strength spurred .
typical , batterymarch 's dean lebaron perhaps , was .
`` the trading system we turned on , and whatever to do it was programmed it did '' . mr. lebaron , who $ 10 billion , manages say ,
what stocks the computer bought , asked `` i do n't know '' the money manager say , .
money not everybody was making .
the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options was halted friday .
bullish positions many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract had friday , and the shutdown when came they was frozen with huge losses .
over the weekend , the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning clearing firms told .
`` they was absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' one chicago-based options trader said .
a test of the stock market 's rally meanwhile , came at about 2 p.m. , with the dow at 2600 , up 31 points on the day .
the dow 's strength bargain hunting had explained up to that point and that a drop in the dow many market professionals was anticipating charles clough , a strategist at merrill lynch , say .
traders to rattle the announcement that his offer for amr corp. real estate magnate and sometime raider donald trump was withdrawing moreover , might have been expected .
the rally instead , only paused for about 25 minutes and then steamed forward as buying institutions resumed .
the market closed minutes after its high for the day of reaching
across the country , yesterday 's events many people took in stride , while generally uneasy about the stock market in general remaining .
james norman , the mayor of ava , mo. say : `` i do n't invest in stocks .
money my hands i can put on i much prefer '' .
while mayor norman found monday the market 's performance reassuring , he say , uneasy he remain .
`` one thing half the experts saying and half the other about the course of the economy we have '' .
`` if anything good come out of this , that some of these lbos it put on the skids it might be '' . ralph holzfaster , a farmer and farm-supply store operator in ogallala , neb. , say of the last few days events ,
`` you 're on a roller coaster , and that may last gordon fines , a money manager at ids financial services in minneapolis , say .
the public is still cautious .
a definitive merger agreement for the 90.6 % of skipper 's inc. it do n't own a national pizza corp. unit to acquire for $ 11.50 a share , or about $ 28.1 million it signed skipper 's inc. , bellevue , wash. , said .
a tender offer for skipper 's to begin on friday , conditioned on at least two-thirds of skipper 's shares being tendered np acquisition co. , a national pizza unit , plan .
the transaction will be financed under its revolving credit agreement pittsburg , kan.-based national pizza said .
in national over-the-counter trading , 50 cents skipper 's shares rose to $ 11 .
remodeling and future growth finance the merger will help skipper 's said .
a $ 10-a-share proposal from national pizza skipper 's previously turned down and whether national pizza 's franchise agreements the purchase would violate pizza hut inc. questioned .
its dispute with pizza hut , it settled it the purchase to make allowing national pizza said .
a higher offer , permitting to turn around , skipper 's results also , began national pizza said .
for the 12 weeks ended sept. 3 , net income of $ 361,000 , or 13 cents a share , skipper 's had compared with a net loss a year earlier .
revenue was $ 19.9 million .
east germans rallied as honecker 's ouster officials reportedly sought .
in what the largest protest in the communist state 's 40-year history , was considered demands for democratic freedoms , to press at least 120,000 demonstrators marched through the southern city of leipzig opposition activists said .
police did n't intervene .
as their citizenship , the first of more than 1,300 east germans to flee to the west through poland trying renounced that the dismissal of hard-line leader honecker regional communist officials demanded a west german newspaper meanwhile , reported .
in a foreign policy speech , it was the `` legitimate right '' of the german people saying secretary of state baker , called for the reunification of germany , .
the soviet union 's press gorbachev blamed for contributing to the nation 's mounting problems .
at a meeting friday , the kremlin leader about recent articles that the possiblity of civil unrest , raised complained and the media of panic buying of goods fueling by stories about impending shortages publishing accused .
a permanent smoking ban on domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on flights of less than six hours to alaska and hawaii house-senate conferees approved .
all but a small percentage of flights , the curbs would cover and an expansion of the current ban on flights of less than two hours represent .
e. robert wallach was sentenced by a u.s. judge in new york to six years in prison and $ 250,000 fined for his racketeering conviction in the wedtech scandal .
guilty wallach , an associate of ex-attorney general meese , was found in august of $ 425,000 in illegal payoffs taking from the now-defunct defense contractor .
the countdown for today 's launch of the space shuttle atlantis , nasa resumed and a lawsuit by anti-nuclear groups the flight to delay because the plutonium-powered galileo space probe was aboard a federal appeals court in washington dismissed .
weather or protesters the liftoff to block it did n't expect the space agency said .
a ban on federal financing of research fetal tissue , using to extend the bush administration is preparing government sources said .
a temporary prohibition was imposed in march 1988 .
while anti-abortion groups is opposed to such research , such tissue transplanting could be effective in diabetes treating scientists have said .
a ban on world ivory trade delegates from 91 nations endorsed in an attempt the endangered elephant to rescue from extinction .
the valuable tusks selling they would continue five african nations , however , said .
reconciliation talks mubarak held with gadhafi at the egyptian resort of mersa metruh .
it was the libyan leader 's first trip to egypt in 16 years .
a reduction in formalities for travel , they announced but any real signs of full diplomatic ties resuming did n't show .
libya he would visit today the talks to resume the egyptian president said .
a tentative agreement visits between families to allow on the divided korean peninsula seoul and pyongyang reached .
differences remained however , between the north and south korean governments , over conditions for the exchanges .
political activity freed black nationalists resumed in south africa and to fight against apartheid , vowed fears of a possible white backlash raising .
that chaos and eventual black marxist rule bringing to the nation the government 's release sunday of eight black political prisoners risked the nation 's main white opposition party warned .
`` bush is fully satisfied '' with cia director webster and the intelligence agency 's performance during the oct. 3 failed coup in panama the white house said .
that unidentified senior administration officials was frustrated with webster 's low-profile activities during the insurrection and wanted him replaced the washington post reported .
limits on automatic wage increases poland 's legislature approved without special provisions for food price rises .
a test of the solidarity-led government 's resolve to proceed with a harsh economic-restructuring program the vote was considered .
a three-party non-socialist government norway 's king olav v installed as power gro harlem brundtland 's three-year-old labor regime relinquished .
the 19-member cabinet by prime minister jan syse , who a `` difficult situation '' acknowledged since only 62 seats in oslo 's 165-member legislature the coalition control is led .
a new round of talks with the country 's leftist rebels el salvador 's government opened in an effort a decade-long civil war to end .
a cease-fire proposal the guerrillas would present during the negotiations in costa rica that constitutional and economic changes include a spokesman said .
a `` possibility '' that their u.s.-supplied arms some nicaraguan rebels was selling to salvadoran guerrillas , there was the state department said but it was n't an organized effort insisted .
secretary of state baker about a u.n. aide who last week the contras to disband told as part of a regional peace accord separately , complained .
a provisional 0.4 % british retail sales volume rose in september from august and was up 2.2 % from september 1988 , the department of trade and industry said .
for the three months ended in september , retail sales volume was down 0.5 % from the previous three months and up 1.2 % from a year earlier .
three divisions of cluett peabody & co. to sell for about $ 600 million to bidermann s.a. , a closely held clothing maker based in paris chicago investor william farley agreed .
after the $ 1.56 billion acquisition of west point-pepperell inc. shortly completing in april , the sale of cluett , a leading shirt maker and one of west point-pepperell 's biggest units it was considering mr. farley 's holding company , farley inc. , said .
cluett units that men 's shirts make under the arrow name , socks under the gold toe name and menswear through the schoeneman division included is in the sale .
the agreement is subject to bidermann 's receipt of financing and to regulatory and other approvals the companies said .
to be concluded by the end of november the sale is expected they said .
a total of about $ 700 million the sale of three of cluett 's four main divisions plus other `` anticipated '' west point-pepperell asset sales by december , should bring in mr. farley said .
he did n't elaborate on other asset sales being considered .
a similar pattern mr. farley followed northwest industries inc. he when acquired and much of its assets then sold .
but fruit of the loom inc. , the underwear maker that he still control and serve as chairman and chief executive he kept .
cluett was an independent company until it west point-pepperell acquired for $ 375 million in cash and stock in 1986 .
in the fiscal year ended sept. 30 , 1988 , operating profit of $ 37 million on sales of $ 757 million cluett had .
clothes bidermann sell under various labels , including yves saint laurent and bill robinson for men and ralph lauren for women .
sales of $ 400 million the company had in 1988 a spokesman said .
in new york stock exchange composite trading , 25 cents west point-pepperell fell to $ 53.875 .
its name to change to manpower plc and a chunk of the nearly $ 1.2 billion in good will realized in the takeover of u.s.-based manpower inc write off britain 's blue arrow plc intend .
that the two steps may be a prelude the world 's biggest employment-services group in the u.s. to reincorporating blue arrow chairman mitchell fromstein said in an interview .
the planned steps , expected within a few months , mr. fromstein disclosed as a 2.5 % drop in its third-quarter pretax earnings blue arrow posted .
blue arrow 's dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market solidify and a more american image give it as jittery about foreign stocks u.s. investors turn after friday 's market plunge the name change and good will write-off could help .
more than 60 % of blue arrow u.s. holders now own compared with 9 % last january .
`` in the u.s. market , the recognition of the manpower name is infinitely stronger than blue arrow , '' mr. fromstein said .
shareholders ' perception of blue arrow as a company in turmoil the moves also could erase .
`` the concept that blue arrow is a thing of the past , it further reinforce '' doug arthur , an analyst at kidder peabody & co. in new york said .
a lot of sense the proposed changes `` all '' make to me , he added .
in a widely publicized boardroom coup , antony berry mr. fromstein ousted as blue arrow chief executive in january , a month after mr. fromstein mr. berry had forced out as the $ 1 million-a-year chief of milwaukee-based manpower .
his control mr. fromstein solidified in april by taking over from mr. berry as chairman .
but the blue arrow tumult is n't over yet , as a disputed # 25 million ( $ 39.4 million ) loan which was made under mr. berry 's direction mr. fromstein have said the british government is investigating .
blue arrow was able the $ 1.34 billion takeover of manpower to pull off in 1987 because higher reported earnings different british and american accounting standards largely produce for british companies .
under british rules , blue arrow was able the $ 1.15 billion in good will arising from the purchase to write off at once .
as a u.s.-based company , the good will to amortize over as many as 40 years , a continuing drag on reported earnings creating blue arrow would have .
good will is the excess of cost of an acquired firm , operating unit or assets over the current or fair market value of those assets .
but with so many shares now held in the u.s. , two ways , blue arrow report its earnings based on both u.k. and u.s. accounting standards .
`` our balance sheets look like they came from alice 's wonderland , '' mr. fromstein said .
`` a handful of pounds of net worth '' the british version show following the 1987 write-off of good will , while `` $ 1 billion of net worth '' the american version reflect because almost none of -lcb- the good will -rcb- have been written off .
some of the good will left on blue arrow 's u.s. books to eradicate in one fell swoop , he hope mr. fromstein said but how much would n't specify .
a sizable chunk , the write-down would represent with the extent of manpower 's good will prior management overstated executives claiming people close to blue arrow suggested .
along with the return to the manpower name , the company 's prospects that move , could bolster during possibly difficult times for temporary help .
about 1 % the number of u.s. temporary workers fell in the 12 months ending aug. 31 , after nearly 3.5 % sliding in july , kidder peabody 's mr. arthur said .
the pretax profit drop in the quarter ended july 31 blue arrow blamed partly on slower earnings growth of non-manpower units in britain .
pretax profit overall , slid to # 18.49 million in the quarter from # 18.98 million a year earlier .
a similar turnaround at the company 's latest acquisition , barry wright corp to guide richard g. sim , the man credited with applied power inc. transforming from an underachiever into a feisty player in the global market for hydraulic tools , hope .
it will be easier this time the 45-year-old former general electric co. executive figure .
but while the acquisition , applauding a tough challenge in the two companies integrating applied 's chief executive face analysts , say .
computer-room equipment and vibration-control systems barry wright , acquired by applied for $ 147 million , make .
the watertown , mass. , company 's sales have been dormant and its profits have dropped .
last year 's earnings of $ 1.3 million , including $ 815,000 from a restructuring gain , was far below the year-earlier $ 8.4 million .
besides barry wright 's sales , which were $ 201.7 million in 1988 , spurring its costs and product line mr. sim must pare .
`` barry wright to take a contribution , to make it how long be going the question is '' f. john mirek , an analyst at blunt ellis loewi in milwaukee say .
whether the ambitious goals set by mr. sim to reach applied continues determine the answer will help .
public the butler , wis. , manufacturer went at $ 15.75 a share in august 1987 , and then mr. sim 's goal was a $ 29 per-share price by 1992 .
that price achieve far ahead of schedule , in august 1988 strong earnings growth helped .
around $ 25 a share trading last week and closing yesterday at $ 23.00 in national over-the-counter trading the stock have since softened , .
but a fresh target of $ 50 a share mr. sim have set by the end of
robert t. foote , applied 's chief financial officer , say `` efficient reinvestment '' of cash by applied and continuation of its healthy 19 % rate of return on operating capital that goal , reaching will require .
in barry wright , a situation `` very similar '' to the one he faced applied he when joined as president and chief operating officer in 1985 mr. sim see .
applied , then a closely held company , was stagnating under the management of its controlling family .
while profitable , `` it was n't growing and a satisfactory return on invested capital , was n't providing '' he say .
mr. sim is confident that the drive certain niche markets to dominate will work at barry wright as it has at applied .
an `` evangelical '' fervor a corporate culture that managers who produce reward and decision-making where is shared to develop he also profess .
the new unit 's operations `` fundamentally sound '' mr. sim consider and that barry wright has been fairly successful in into markets that larger competitors have n't interested moving add .
`` with a little patience , these businesses will perform very satisfactorily , '' mr. sim say .
within about six months , `` things will be moving in the right direction , '' he predict .
it will be easier barry wright to turn around since he be now in the driver 's seat mr. sim figure .
he when came to applied , `` the power to execute as i do today , i did n't have '' he say .
chief executive officer of applied he was named in 1986 and chairman became last november .
at applied , growth mr. sim set as his first objective .
the company public he in an offering that about $ 12.6 million , netted applied which the company 's acquisition program launch helped took .
sales climbed to an estimated $ 245 million in fiscal 1989 , ended aug. 31 , from $ 99.9 million in fiscal 1985 .
that about $ 20.8 million , or $ 1.58 a share , earnings , which have marched steadily upward in recent years , reached up from $ 15.2 million in fiscal 1988 and $ 3.9 million in 1985 in the fiscal year just ended , the company expect .
