introduced legislation that would restrict how can raise capital , the new savings-and-loan bailout agency creating another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts influential members of the house ways and means committee .
would prevent the resolution trust corp. the bill , include chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill. ) , whose backers from raising temporary working capital by having an rtc-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget .
intend to restrict the rtc to treasury borrowings only , the bill unless receive specific congressional authorization the agency .
said `` is such agency ` self-help ' borrowing unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct treasury borrowing , '' rep. fortney stark ( d. , calif. ) , the bill 's chief sponsor .
include raising $ 30 billion from debt issued by the newly created rtc the complex financing plan in the s&l bailout law .
was created this financing system in the new law in order to keep the bailout spending from swelling the budget deficit .
would be raised another $ 20 billion through treasury bonds , which pay lower interest rates .
but also require `` working '' capital to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that is sold , until can be sold separately the assets the rtc .
would be paid off leaving the total spending for the bailout at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years that debt as is sold the assets , .
said `` be it a problem that clearly have to be resolved , '' david cooke , executive director of the rtc .
have already spent roughly $ 19 billion selling 34 insolvent s&ls , the agency and is it likely to sell 600 or merge by the time conclude the bailout .
absent other working capital , said he , would be forced to delay other thrift resolutions until could be raised cash by selling the bad assets the rtc .
said `` would have to wait until have collected we on those assets before can move forward , we we '' he .
have muddied the fight the complicated language in the huge new law .
do allow the rtc to borrow up to $ 5 billion from the treasury at any time the law .
moreover , say may not exceed $ 50 billion , the rtc 's total obligations it but is derived that figure after including notes and other debt , and subtracting the market value of the assets hold the rtc from it .
say but did n't anticipate more public debt , congress or intend opponents of the rtc 's working-capital plan , and said the rtc oversight board has been remiss in not keeping informed congress rep. charles schumer ( d. , n.y . ) .
said `` lead that secrecy to a proposal like the one from ways and means , which seems sort of draconian , to me '' he .
`` is going to have to pay a price of prior consultation on the hill the rtc if want that kind of flexibility they '' .
will hold a hearing on the bill the ways and means committee next tuesday .
we 're about to see if work advertising .
hard on the heels of friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that be followed , is rolling out new ads trumpeting a familiar message : keep on investing , be the market just fine a few big brokerage firms .
is to keep clients from fleeing the market , as did individual investors in droves after the crash in october their mission
just days after the 1987 crash , rushed out ads major brokerage firms to calm investors .
this time around , be moving even faster they .
filmed a new television commercial painewebber inc. at 4 p.m. edt yesterday and had it on the air by last night .
placed new ads fidelity investments in newspapers yesterday , and wrote another new ad appearing today .
by yesterday afternoon had already written new tv ads shearson lehman hutton inc. .
considered running them during tomorrow night 's world series broadcast it but decided not to when recovered the market yesterday .
was plotting out potential new ad strategies other brokerage firms , including merrill lynch & co. , .
learned a lesson the brokerage firms the last time around , when flooded the phone lines frightened investors and fled the market in a panic .
this time , was the firms ready .
for example , prepared several months ago ads fidelity , in case of a market plunge .
when went the market into its free fall friday afternoon , ordered full pages in the monday editions of half a dozen newspapers the investment firm .
touted fidelity 's automated 800-number the ads beneath the huge headline , `` fidelity is ready for your call '' .
say received about double the usual volume of calls the 800-line , which already was operating but which about , did n't know many clients over the weekend a fidelity spokesman .
say `` come a lot of investor confidence from the fact that can speak they to us , '' he .
had to think ahead of time about it we '' .
go a step further , today 's fidelity ad encouraging to stay investors in the market or even to plunge in with fidelity .
underneath the headline `` diversification , '' counsel `` based on the events of the past week , need to know is balanced to help protect them against the market 's volatility their portfolios all investors '' it , .
go on to plug a few diversified fidelity funds by name it .
also was painewebber able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash .
in the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , began taping in-house , commercials ultimately getting down fast enough to tape a commercial after closed the market and rush it on the air that night its timing the brokerage firm .
also negotiated an arrangement with cable news network under which would agree to air its last-minute creations cnn it .
feature mary farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , sounding particularly bullish the new painewebber commercial , created with ad agency saatchi & saatchi co. , .
taped as just closed the market yesterday , offer ms. farrell advising , `` view here the market we as going through a relatively normal cycle it ... .
continue to feel that is the stock market still the place to be for long-term appreciation we '' .
was scheduled to appear three times on cnn last night the spot .
considered an even harder sell , recommending specific stocks painewebber .
instead , settled it on just urging the clients who are its lifeline to keep that money in the market .
say `` be saying is to see go down which just drive down further , the prices the market and dump everything , the worst thing can do that anyone we '' john lampe , painewebber 's director of advertising .
`` if owned it you and liked it friday , have n't changed the true value '' .
add `` is this n't 1987 revisited '' he , .
with fluctuating the market and then closing up more than 88 points yesterday , had to constantly revise their approach investment firms .
at shearson lehman , created potential new commercials executives friday night and throughout the weekend , then had to regroup yesterday afternoon .
had been to make one of shearson 's easy-to-film , black-and-white `` where stand we '' commercials , which have been running occasionally in response to news events since 1985 the plan .
would have run the ad during the world series tomorrow , replacing the debut commercial of shearson 's new ad campaign , `` leadership by example '' .
but in a meeting after closed the market yesterday , decided not to go ahead with the stock-market ad shearson executives .
`` do n't think need to be said anything we at this point .
'' say seem to be straightening out the market ; be taking a wait-and-see attitude , we cathleen b. stewart , executive vice president of marketing .
in any case , is clearly moving faster to create new ads the brokerage firms than did they in the fall of 1987 .
but remain to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective it .
in 1987 , despite a barrage of ads from most of the major investment firms , ran en masse individuals from the market .
now must try their hardest the firms to prove that can work advertising this time around .
reached an agreement in principle to acquire a majority stake in arnold advertising , a small boston shop edward eskandarian , former chairman of della femina , mcnamee wcrs/boston , .
was n't disclosed terms .
become chairman and chief executive of arnold mr. eskandarian , who resigned his della femina post in september , .
will retain the title of president john verret , the agency 's president and chief executive , .
separately , named arnold to handle its estimated $ 4 million cooperative ad account for the hartford , conn. , area mcdonald 's corp. , oak brook , ill. , .
had been handled that account by della femina , mcnamee wcrs .
call to use their clout to help solve the nation 's education crisis a 142-page ad supplement to business week 's special `` corporate '' elite issue on business leaders .
include ads from 52 corporate advertisers the supplement , the largest ever for the magazine , and kicks off a two-year business week initiative on education .
will distribute 10 % of the gross revenues from the supplement the magazine as grants to innovative teachers .
be it what 1 ) explain why is we like , well , ourselves rather than bo jackson ; 2 ) cautions that be it possible to drown in a lake that average two feet deep ; and 3 ) predicts that would produce 1,118 publishable rock 'n' roll tunes 10,000 monkeys placed before 10,000 pianos .
is baseball , that game of the long haul , the quintessential sport of the mean , and caught up the mean ol' law with the san francisco giants in the world series last weekend .
was held the team that dumped runs by the bushel on the chicago cubs in the national league playoffs to just one in two games by the home-team oakland a 's , the gang that had been done similarly unto by the los angeles dodgers and orel hershiser in last year 's tournament .
morever , was accomplished much of the damage by a 's who had some catching up to do .
in game two , on a cool sunday evening in this land of perpetual autumn , was done a lot of the catching up by the a 's catcher , terry steinbach .
hit a 2-0 pitch from rick reuschel he into the left-field stands in inning four to stretch his team 's lead from 2-1 to a decisive 5-1 , where stayed it .
so what if had struck just seven home runs steinbach in 130 regular-season games , and batted in the seventh position of the a 's lineup .
later remarked `` if get your pitch , you and take a good swing , can happen anything , '' he .
had three hits two more than 'd had he in the five-game dodger series in which 'd gone 1-for-17 he mark mcgwire , the big , red-haired oakland first baseman , in four at bats , .
got seven of their team 's 11 hits the a-men batting nos. 6 through 9 , a.k.a. the `` bottom of the order , '' and scored four of its runs in a 5-0 decision .
held the giants right-hander dave stewart to five hits to account for the zero on the other side of the saturday ledger .
indicates may have some evening up coming , he that was he the a 's winningest pitcher during its american league campaign with a 21-9 mark , plus two wins over toronto in the playoffs , but with the way is behaving his split-fingered fastball , might not be that this week .
goes the same for mike moore , another veteran who overcame early struggles to permit but a run and four hits the giants in seven innings in sunday 's contest .
marveled `` had a better split-finger than the guy before , every guy put out there they '' giant manager roger craig .
be he an ex-hurler who 's one of the leading gurus of the fashionable delivery , which look like a fastball until dive it beneath the lunging bat .
is that go up two games to none in the best-of-seven fest the a 's into san francisco 's candlestick park tonight the upshot of the downshoot .
say that went on to win it all about three of four clubs ( 29 of 39 ) that took 2-0 series leads the stat to reckon here with .
be that not an average to soothe giant rooters .
might think that the home fans in this series of the subway called bart ( be that a better name for a public conveyance than `` desire , '' do n't think you ? ) would have been ecstatic over the proceedings , one but observe them they in relative calm .
sat side by side partisans of the two combatants in the 49,000-plus seats of oakland coliseum , and while cheered their favorites they and booed the opposition , advanced no further , at least as far as could see i hostilities .
even showed up wearing caps bearing the colors and emblems of both teams a few folks .
`` i 'm for the giants today , but because only lost they yesterday .
love 'em both i .
'' said is the only thing be rooting i for for to go seven games , the series david williams , a sacramento septuagenarian , at the coliseum before sunday 's go .
choose to believe be it the latter , i although probably spring it from the fact that is just about everyone out here , including the a 's and giants , originally from somewhere else .
suffice it to say that if was this a new york yankees-mets series , or one between the chicago cubs and white sox ( hey , be it possible ) , 'd need uniformed police you in every other seat to separate opposing fans , and would bifurcate their bonnets only the suicidal .
anyway , gave a lot of heroes to root for the a 's you .
in the opening game , besides steinbach and stewart , there was walt weiss , a twiggy-looking , second-year shortstop who had lost a couple months of the season to knee surgery .
was he flawless afield ( ditto in game two ) , moved along a runner in the a 's three-run second inning , and homered for his team 's final tally .
such is his reputation among the east bay bashers that when hit his first career home run he last season , agreed to turn over the ball to him in return for an autograph the fan who caught it .
was an a 's co-hero of the second game rickey henderson , who exemplify the hot side of the hot-cold equation .
smoked toronto he in the playoffs with six hits , seven walks and eight stolen bases in 22 at bats , and continued that by going 3-for-3 at the plate sunday , along with walking , stealing a base and scoring a run .
lectured `` when 're you in the groove , see tremendously , every ball you '' he .
was the cold guys in the set will clark , kevin mitchell and matt williams , the giants ' 3-4-5 hitters .
combined they for 25 hits , six home runs and 24 runs batted in in the five games against the cubs .
went here , a collective 5-for-24 they with zero homers and ribbies .
declared `` believe i in the law of averages , '' san francisco batting coach dusty baker after game two .
`` 'd rather see come up a so-so hitter who 's hot for the other side i than a good hitter who 's cold '' .
but wisely offered no prediction about when would return good times to his side the old dodger slugger .
said `` when go it , never know when 'll get back , it you you '' he .
`` be that baseball .
reported a 10 % drop in third-quarter net income , ncr corp. citing intense competition that caused its gross profit margins to dip .
fell roughly what had expected analysts net income for the quarter to $ 93.1 million from $ 103.1 million , .
but dropped only 2 % per-share profit to $ 1.23 a share from $ 1.26 a share , as continued its stock buy-back plan the company .
dropped average shares outstanding to 75.8 million from 82.1 million .
fell 1 % revenue to $ 1.39 billion from $ 1.41 billion .
also said `` will adversely affect its fourth-quarter performance the negative effect of a stronger u.s. dollar '' and `` make difficult to better 1988 results it '' the computer maker , which sell more than half its goods outside the u.s. , .
said declined reflecting a world-wide softening of the computer markets revenue both in the u.s. and overseas , ncr .
however , said showed `` good gains '' orders in the u.s. during the latest quarter the company , .
estimate those gains analysts at 12 % to 13 % , coming a good part of it from large orders placed by a few of ncr 's major customers .
note in addition to a general slowing of the computer industry , is also affected ncr , which sell automated teller machines and computerized cash registers , by the retail and financial sectors , `` areas of the economy that have generally not been robust , '' sanjiv g. hingorani , an analyst for salomon brothers inc .
said should negatively affect the current quarter 's results , these factors , combined with a strong dollar , ncr .
in the year-earlier fourth quarter , had profit of $ 149.6 million , or $ 1.85 a share , ncr on revenue of $ 1.8 billion .
said lowered his full-year estimates for 1989 he to $ 5.35 a share from $ 5.50 a share mr. hingorani .
was slashed revenue projections to $ 6.03 billion from $ 6.20 billion .
last year , had net income of $ 439.3 million , or $ 5.33 a share , ncr on $ 5.99 billion in revenue .
for the nine months , fell 9 % the company 's earnings to $ 264.6 million , or $ 3.40 a share , from $ 289.7 million , or $ 3.49 a share .
declined 1 % revenues to $ 4.17 billion from $ 4.19 billion .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , fell 75 cents ncr shares to close at $ 57 .
concerning your sept. 19 article `` link analysts ' pay wall street firms to performance , '' be delighted that is finally tuning in wall street to the hard , cold facts of the real working world i .
if is the firms serious , however , why limit the practice to the poor , maligned analysts is whose ability to see into the future fragile at best ?
why not extend the same harsh standards to the sales force , and pay a base salary with annual bonus based on made how much money they for their clients during the year brokers ?
should stop a lot of account-churning , that and produce a stock market driven only by professional concern , careful thought and good sense .
reported steve clark , a shearson lehman hutton inc. trader , for work at 5 a.m. , two and a half hours before the usual monday morning strategy meeting .
at jefferies & co. , did n't reach the office j. francis palamara until 5:30 a.m. , but then he had been up most of the night at home .
said `` had all night long calls i from the states , '' he .
`` was woken up every hour -- 1:30 , 2:30 , 3:30 , 4:30 i .
is looking people for possible opportunities to buy , but want to stick out their chin nobody '' .
for many of london 's securities traders , was it a day that started nervously in the small hours .
by lunchtime , was the selling at near-panic fever .
but as ended the day in a frantic wall street-inspired rally , breathed a sigh of relief the city .
so went it yesterday in the trading rooms of london 's financial district .
in the wake of wall street 's plunge last friday , was considered especially vulnerable the london market .
and before the opening of trading here yesterday , was all eyes on early trading in tokyo for a clue as how widespread to might be the fallout .
by the time officially got trading under way at 9 a.m. , was in the news from asia .
and left mixed signals it for london .
closed off a significant but less-than-alarming 1.8 % on thin volume tokyo stocks ; declined 6.5 % hong kong stocks in orderly trading .
at jefferies ' trading room on finsbury circus , a stately circle at the edge of the financial district , displayed the london market 's major barometer -- the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index desktop computer screens .
indicated falling stocks red figures on the screens ; blue figures , rising stocks .
right away , outnumbered 80 to 20 , the blues , the reds as opened off 157.1 points , or 7 % the index at 2076.8 , .
said `` see concern , i but do n't see any panic , i '' mr. palamara , a big , good-humored new york native who run the 15-trader office .
played conservatively , it the jefferies office , a branch of the los angeles-based firm , seeking to avoid risk .
said `` is this not the sort of market to have a big position in , '' david smith , who head trading in all non-u.s. stocks .
`` tend to run a very tight book we '' .
spent most of its energies trying to match buyers and sellers , jefferies in the morning and there was n't many buyers .
said `` is getting pretty well pasted all the takeover stocks -- scottish & newcastle , b.a.t , drg -- this morning , '' mr. smith .
seconds later , came in a 7,500-share `` sell '' order for scottish & newcastle .
for the third time in 15 minutes , left the no-smoking area a trader next to mr. smith to have a cigarette .
on the screens , remained only two forlorn blue figures , but had recovered a few points the index and was off about 140 .
said `` because did n't collapse tokyo , let pick up a little stock , 's '' mr. smith .
targeted 7,500 shares of reuters he and punched a button to call up other dealers ' price quotes on his screen .
showed the best price the vivid yellow figures at 845 pence , ( $ 13.27 ) and started putting out feelers mr. smith 's traders .
but sensed a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling , the market and immediately jumped the quotes to 850 pence .
said `` when want to buy , i run they from you -- keep changing their prices , they '' mr. smith .
`` be it very frustrating . ''
temporarily abandoned his search for the reuters shares he .
by this time , was it 4:30 a.m. in new york , and fielded a call from a new york customer wanting an opinion on the british stock market , which had been having troubles of its own even before friday 's new york market break mr. smith .
`` fundamentally dangerous ... , '' said mr. smith , almost in a whisper , `` ... . fundamentally weak ... fairly vulnerable still ... extremely dangerously poised ...
be we in for a lot of turbulence ... . ''
was he right .
by midday , was the london market in full retreat .
said `` be falling it like a stone , '' danny linger , a pit trader who was standing outside the london international financial futures exchange .
gathered only half the usual lunchtime crowd at the tony corney & barrow wine bar on old broad street nearby .
was conversation subdued as watched the latest market statistics most patrons on television .
at 12:49 p.m. , hit its low , 2029.7 , off 204.2 points the index .
said early in the afternoon `` opened down , the limit france off at least 10 % if could calculate the index , you which you could n't , '' mr. clark , the shearson trader , .
`` is down 10 % and suspended , spain be down 8 % , sweden norway 11 % .
have been very badly damaged this market '' .
as neared 2:30 p.m. -- wall street 's opening time -- , traded bets on how low would open the new york market shearson traders and salesmen .
in the center of the trading floor , scrambled as soon as opened the new york market -- plummeting more than 60 points in the first few minutes chief trader roger streeter and two colleagues for the telephones .
saw an opportunity created by the sell-off they .
as dumped american depositary receipts in jaguar plc , wall street traders bought them mr. streeter and trader sam ruiz to resell in the u.k .
still expect ford motor co. or general motors corp. to bid for jaguar investors here .
after about 45 minutes , suddenly , rallied the u.s. markets .
shouted `` have gone better , the mmi '' one trader at about 3:15 london time , as suddenly indicated a turnabout the u.s. major markets index contract .
as strengthened wall street , went wild the london trading room .
shouted traders as posted an ever-narrowing loss on wall street their screens .
then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded wall street to a gain on the day .
`` rally ! rally ! rally ! '' shouted shearson trader andy rosen , selling more jaguar shares .
`` is this panic buying ! ''
as rallied the london market , wondered whether the weekend of worrying and jitters had been worth it some .
closed off 70.5 , or about 3.3 % the london index at 2163.4 , its high for the day , .
is ambassador paul nitze 's statement ( notable & quotable , sept. 20 ) , `` if have a million people working for you , you will go wrong at least once a year , every bad thing that have one chance in a million of going wrong '' a pretty negative way of looking at things .
is n't it just as fair to say that if have a million people working for you , you will go right at least once a year every good thing that have one chance in a million of going right ?
approved a bill that would give authority to review leveraged buy-outs of major u.s. airlines and approve the transportation secretary the house aviation subcommittee .
spurred quick action on the legislation , introduced wednesday and approved by the subcommittee on a voice vote yesterday the collapsed plan to acquire ual corp. , parent of united airlines , .
is expected to be taken up by the public works and transportation committee tomorrow , the bill and will be urged a floor vote by next week .
drew criticism from the bush administration and a parting shot from financier donald trump , who yesterday withdrew his takeover bid for amr corp. , the parent of american airlines the measure .
in a letter to subcommittee chairman james oberstar ( d. , minn. ) , criticized the bill mr. trump as an explicit effort to thwart his bid for amr , and said contributed it to the collapse of the deal .
also sent a letter to express the administration 's opposition to the bill `` in its present form '' elaine chao , deputy transportation secretary , .
brushed off mr. trump 's allegations rep. oberstar as an `` excuse for failing his own deal '' .
also said indicated there is `` wiggle room '' in the administration 's position the fact that had n't come the other letter from transportation secretary samuel skinner he .
repeatedly stressed that was the legislation n't a response to any particular market situation mr. oberstar and other committee members .
but cited the ual and amr examples they as reasons to move quickly to enact this legislation .
said is the withdrawal of the trump bid for amr n't likely to deflate efforts to push the legislation aides both in the house and senate .
said `` be it still on the fast track and still want to do it , we '' one senate aide .
is aimed the bill at addressing the concern that might sacrifice costly safety measures an airline to pay off the debt incurred in a leveraged buy-out .
currently , do n't have clearly established authority to block mergers , the transportation secretary but can take the drastic step of revoking the operating certificate of any carrier consider unfit the official .
view the bill supporters of the legislation as an effort to add stability and certainty to the airline-acquisition process , and to preserve the safety and fitness of the industry .
in general , would give a 30-day review period the bill the transportation department before could be acquired 15 % or more of the voting stock of a major u.s. air carrier .
also would require to notify the transportation secretary the acquiring party and to provide all information relevant to determining the intent of the acquisition it .
would allow the secretary to reject a buy-out if have n't been provided sufficient information , or if is the buy-out likely to weaken financially , the carrier result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets , or give control to a foreign interest the bill .
if is needed more information , would have authority to extend the review period 20 days the secretary .
expressed support for the bill all the witnesses , both congressmen and industry experts , in order to prevent profiteers from cashing in on airline profits at the expense of safe , cost-effective service .
but disapproved several committee members , backing mr. trump 's claim that caused the failure of the ual deal and the stock-market plunge the threat of regulation some .
was that would be prohibited large airlines from divesting themselves of smaller entities and producing independent spin-off companies one of the major concerns expressed by the dissenters .
in a possible prelude to the resumption of talks between boeing co. and striking machinists union members , said will meet representatives of the two sides with him tomorrow a federal mediator .
said `` it could be a long meeting or it could be a short one , '' doug hammond , the mediator , who called the agreement to meet a first step toward a resumption of negotiations .
said `` be encouraged that is scheduled again talks we but beyond that , have made no expression of expectations , we '' a boeing spokesman .
have rejected a three-year contract offer that would have provided a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus some bonuses the machinists union .
said currently , is average pay for machinists $ 13.39 an hour , boeing .
now in its 13th day , have idled about 55,000 machinists the strike and has started to delay delivery of some jetliners .
with a strike fund of about $ 100 million , had said was prepared it for a long strike the union .
after the third week on strike , will begin receiving $ 100 a week from the fund union members .
continue work at boeing with manning the lines supervisors and other non-striking personnel .
and at the company 's wichita , kan. , plant , still are working about 2,400 of the 11,700 machinists , said boeing .
under kansas right-to-work laws , can not require workers to be union members contracts .
have declined to say is working how many employees at its giant renton , wash. , plant boeing .
could n't be reached union officials for comment .
said intend to launch a tender offer for the computer printer maker 's common stock it dpc acquisition partners , a hostile suitor for dataproducts corp. , .
also said plan to file preliminary materials with the securities and exchange commission regarding a shareholder solicitation to oust dataproducts ' board it dpc , a group led by the new york investment firm crescott inc. , .
hold a 7.8 % stake in dataproducts dpc and made a $ 15-a-share bid for the company in may , but considered the $ 283.7 million proposal unacceptable dataproducts management .
declined to elaborate on the group 's new plan a dpc spokesman .
in american stock exchange composite trading yesterday , jumped 62.5 cents dataproducts shares to close at $ 9.375 .
announced a restructuring plan dataproducts , which had been seeking a buyer for several months , in september and took itself off the auction block .
include plans to split into three sectors , to phase out domestic printer manufacturing operations and to sell its new england subsidiary the company 's restructuring .
as part of the plan , announced a pact to sell $ 63 million of its real estate holdings to trizec properties inc. , a unit of canada 's trizec corp dataproducts .
said `` is the company at a loss to understand dpc 's intentions '' jack davis , dataproducts ' president , chairman and chief executive officer , .
called today 's announcement `` opportunistic and disruptive '' he and said intend to proceed with its restructuring the company .
plummeted share prices across europe yesterday in response to friday 's new york sell-off , but staged a late comeback some issues after opened wall street without another rout .
have further reason for optimism european investors today , after the u.s. rebound .
was the frankfurt stock exchange , which closed before opened the new york exchanges , the hardest hit of the major european markets , with dropping 12.8 % the dax index .
in london , plummeted prices in early trading and were off as much as 9 % before coming back strong to close down only 3.2 % after the new york opening .
said `` in my view , will stabilize relatively quickly the stock market west german economics minister helmut haussmann , .
there may be one or other psychological or technical reactions , but is n't based they on fundamentals .
is the economy of west germany and the ec -lcb- european community -rcb- highly stable . ''
also was hard hit paris , which has been the center of speculation fever in recent weeks , .
fell share prices in milan , amsterdam , zurich , madrid and stockholm .
also tumbled prices in brussels , where disrupted trading , a computer breakdown .
plunged 12.8 % , a one-day record , wiping out the summer 's gains the dax index of 30 west german blue chips .
closed down 203.56 points the index at 1385.72 , .
by comparison , on black monday , two years ago would have dropped 9.4 % , the new index according to a projection by the exchange .
may have reacted so strongly investors to friday 's u.s. stock market loss because had vivid memories of the frankfurt exchange 's losing 35 % of its value in the 1987 crash and its wake they .
this time , however , may have been hurt many small investors by acting so swiftly .
said `` went they all in the wrong direction , '' andreas insam , an investment adviser for the bank in liechtenstein 's frankfurt branch .
said told clients to buy selected west german blue chips after fell they by about 10 % he he .
after was delayed 30 minutes the opening because of the crush of sell orders , was extended 75 minutes frankfurt 's normal two-hour trading session to handle the heavy volume .
said `` was the beginning chaotic , '' nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank ag .
`` took three-quarters of an hour it before could be worked out to get a reading on the market enough prices '' .
was institutional investors and bankers , spent watching far eastern markets , many of whom the night before in their offices cautiously optimistic after the mild 1.8 % decline in tokyo stock prices .
`` was everybody still confident , including most institutional investors .
'' said is that a little why was surprised everybody by the storm of sell orders from small private investors , norbert braeuer , a senior trader for hessische landesbank .
began late yesterday , picking up lower-priced shares some big institutions , including banks , but wanted to see what would happen in new york before acting most investors .
but if even continue to stabilize , wall street say could inhibit a swift recovery for the frankfurt exchange , which already was showing signs of weakness after had slipped the dax from a 1989 high of 1657.61 on sept. 8 the latest blow to investor confidence analysts here .
was a 16.3 % drop for mannesmann ag and dresdner bank ag 's 9.6 % decline especially problematic for their respective boards , whose plans for major rights issues in november could now be in jeopardy .
last month said hoped to raise 1.2 billion marks ( $ 642.2 million ) by issuing four million shares at 300 marks each it dresdner bank .
yet cropped dresdner 's share price yesterday 's market by 33 marks to 309 marks a share , leaving little incentive for to subscribe investors to the standing price unless recover quickly the market .
headed toward a record drop at midday , recouped two-thirds of its losses the london stock market in the wake of new york 's early rally .
closed off 70.5 points , the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index at 2163.4 , its high for the day , after having plunged 204.2 points at 12:49 p.m .
was it big institutions such as norwich union insurance group , scottish amicable investment managers and standard life assurance co. that spearheaded the rally .
attracted by low prices and encouraged by new york 's performance , scooped up equities they across the board .
was volume 959.3 million shares , more than triple recent levels .
gave a parachute late buying the paris bourse after its free fall early in the day .
ended down 5.4 % the cac general index at 523.6 , a drop of 29.6 points from friday .
said `` there was a volatility in the market have never seen before , that i '' michel vigier , a partner in brokerage firm cholet dupont .
`` when turned around wall street shortly after the opening , there was panic buying in paris '' .
said that as spread that was moving up , wall street the news changed their line traders who had called to place sell orders in mid-conversation , ordering instead buys brokers .
was driven primarily trading by small investors and speculators , with waiting large institutions on the sidelines until late in the day .
when turned wall street , however , entered the market , the big boys looking for bargains .
swung j.p. morgan & co. to a loss in the third quarter , while reported more than doubled net income , ncnb corp. and rose 10 % security pacific corp. net .
as expected , posted a $ 1.82 billion net loss for the quarter , j.p. morgan , reflecting the new york bank 's decision last month to add $ 2 billion to reserves for losses on loans to less-developed countries .
placed the parent of morgan guaranty trust co. the reserve addition among a few major u.s. banks that have covered nearly all their medium and long-term portfolios to less-developed countries with reserves .
equal $ 9.92 a share the latest quarter 's loss .
in the year-earlier quarter , earned $ 233.6 million , or $ 1.25 a share morgan .
called the results `` mildly disappointing '' george m. salem , analyst at prudential-bache securities inc. , .
said excluding the $ 2 billion provision and allowing for the taxes paid morgan , was earnings about 65 cents a share , mr. salem .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , climbed $ 1.50 a share morgan to $ 44.125 .
sank 27 % net interest income in the quarter to $ 254 million from $ 347 million .
said was the interest rate on short-term funds , which borrow to finance longer-term loans to customers , banks `` sharply higher , '' morgan .
received $ 2 million of interest payments on its medium and long-term brazilian loans morgan ; said had been accruing interest , they net interest income would have been $ 35 million higher in the quarter , morgan .
also remain classified as non-accruing , costing $ 10 million of interest income the bank in the third period such loans to argentina .
climbed 12 % income from sources other than interest to $ 414 million , reflecting higher corporate-finance and other fees and gains on sales of investment securities .
said `` was partly offset these increases '' by lower trading-related income , the bank .
grew 16 % non-interest expenses to $ 496 million .
more than doubled ncnb corp. 's net income in the period , largely because of continued strong performance by the bank 's texas operations .
said rose earnings to $ 143.6 million , or $ 1.45 a share , from $ 58.9 million , or 69 cents a share , a year earlier the charlotte , n.c. , company .
included a gain of $ 56.1 million , or 59 cents a share , related to the purchase of the remaining 51 % of ncnb texas national bank from the federal deposit insurance corp the latest quarter .
however , contrasted the strong performance , with an unexpectedly large increase in the size of ncnb 's problem loans , particularly in the southeast .
in the third quarter , jumped nonperforming assets to $ 474.1 million , or 1.43 % of net loans and leases , from $ 232.8 million , or 1.13 % in the second quarter .
totaled $ 230.8 million , or 1.27 % nonperformers in the year-ago third quarter .
included is a $ 33 million loan , which said `` expect to be fully repaid early in the fourth quarter , with no loss , it '' ncnb in the increase in the most recent quarter .
offset strong loan growth of 17 % in ncnb 's southeast operations , as well as a 28 % growth in deposits resulting from an aggressive marketing campaign the deterioration in credit quality .
also helped squeeze ncnb 's net interest margin in the southeast to 3.38 % from 3.80 % a year earlier the higher rates paid on deposits .
in big board composite trading yesterday , jumped $ 3.50 a share , ncnb to $ 51 .
was released results after closed the market .
contributed $ 76.9 million ncnb texas national , formed from the remnants of of the failed first republicbank corp. of dallas , to ncnb 's bottom line in the third quarter .
said reflect 100 % of earnings of the texas operation since aug. 1 its third-quarter results ncnb .
raised some $ 1.9 billion in new capital ncnb during the quarter to complete the ncnb texas purchase , and to acquire several small failed thrifts to fill out its regional franchise .
last week , said purchased both freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , and university federal savings association of san antonio , texas , it for $ 169.4 million the banking company .
in the first nine months , climbed 65 % ncnb 's net income to $ 310.9 million , or $ 3.30 a share , from $ 188.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share , a year earlier .
slowed security pacific 's earnings growth in the third quarter , but was the los angeles bank holding company still able to post a 10 % increase in net income because of robust growth in residential real-estate and consumer loans .
said resulted mainly reflecting a 33 % increase in real estate loans ( mainly residential ) , and a 19 % rise in consumer loans the gain from a $ 54 million increase in net interest income , the company .
in effect replaced some low-yielding assets such as inter-bank loans , which was allowed to decrease these high-yielding loans .
as a result , fell only 13 basis points , a more mild decrease than some major banks outside california , which have been reporting more sluggish earnings security pacific 's net interest margin .
closed down 37.5 cents , security pacific shares at $ 44.625 , in big board composite trading .
represent a 0.89 % return on assets for security pacific , and an 18.9 % return on equity the earnings .
offset continuing real-estate loan losses in the depressed arizona market the loan growth .
reported a 33 % increase in net credit losses for the quarter , to $ 109 million from $ 81.9 million in the year-ago period security pacific .
grew slightly nonperforming loans to $ 1.75 billion at sept. 30 , from $ 1.7 billion a year ago .
was down 22 % , or $ 30.4 million , security pacific 's loan-loss provision because added the year before it to its foreign-debt reserve .
fell 6 % non-interest income in the quarter , mainly because of an unusual gain a year earlier from the sale of hong kong banking operations .
grew only 4 % non-interest expense in the period .
said wo n't take a position on a revised tender offer by mccaw cellular communications inc. to buy lin it and has asked for clarification of the offer lin broadcasting corp. .
is the new offer , which seek 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern , for $ 125 a share for 22 million lin shares .
would require mccaw to begin an auction process in july 1994 that would buy out remaining holders at a per-share price roughly equivalent to might then have what to pay for all of lin a third party mccaw 's revised tender offer .
is asking mccaw to clarify its tender offer , which challenge an agreement between bellsouth corp. and lin to merge their cellular-telephone businesses lin .
have notified lin that `` would shortly respond it to the mccaw proposal in as full and effective a manner as is warranted '' bellsouth .
said may be misled holders by the provision in the mccaw proposal that `` guarantees '' private market value after five years for the remaining shares the lin board .
said have `` no obligation to purchase '' mccaw and is the definition of private market value uncertain , the lin board .
added that mccaw would be able to control lin 's operations and `` could , therefore , operate lin in a manner which could diminish its private market value and attractiveness to a third-party purchaser in five years '' the board .
in national over-the-counter trading , closed down $ 2.75 lin at $ 104.75 , .
said that is dow jones & co. 's $ 18-a-share offer for the electronic financial information services company `` grossly inadequate '' a group of institutional investors in telerate inc. .
in a letter filed with the securities and exchange commission , said the group , which hold about 4.5 million telerate shares , or about 4.7 % of the shares outstanding , `` ... '' at present believe an offer for less than $ 25 per share would be fair none of us and believe that is $ 25 too low some .
was dated the letter oct. 6 .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , closed down 75 cents a share telerate shares yesterday at $ 18.875 , .
have launched an $ 18-a-share , or $ 576 million , tender offer to acquire the remaining telerate shares outstanding dow jones , publisher of the wall street journal , ; own 67 % of telerate dow jones .
have rejected the offer , which expires nov. 3 telerate .
include putnam cos. and various affiliates based in boston ; wells fargo bank , san francisco ; the california public employees retirement system , sacramento , calif. , and t. rowe price associates inc. , baltimore the group .
among other issues , said have `` concern as whether to meet the applicable requirements of procedural fairness dow jones 's offer '' it the group 's letter .
said had n't seen the group 's filing , he a spokesman for dow jones but added `` obviously disagree dow jones with their conclusions , .
is to buy any and all shares tendered at $ 18 a share our offer .
said have ruled that violate the accord canada 's restrictions on exports of pacific salmon and herring the first dispute-settlement panel set up under the u.s.-canadian `` free '' trade agreement u.s. trade representative carla hills .
said have to resolve the dispute the u.s. and canada until nov. 13 mrs. hills .
if is n't reached a solution by then , said she , would have the right to suspend some trade concessions to canada equivalent in value to the losses suffered by u.s. fish-processing companies in alaska and the pacific northwest the u.s. .
in ottawa , however , said accepted the `` legitimacy of canada 's position on the use of these landing requirements to conserve these important fisheries and manage '' the dispute-settlement panel canadian trade minister john crosbie .
questioned about the seeming contradiction in the u.s. and canadian government views of the panel 's report , said had clearly ruled that `` is the canadian trade restrictions illegal '' the panel an aide for mrs. hills .
declined to put a dollar estimate on the losses resulting from the canadian export restrictions the u.s. trade representative .
initially had an export prohibition that was replaced by regulations requiring that had to be brought ashore prior to export in british columbia by commercial fishermen such fish canada .
was defended this action by the canadian government on conservation grounds .
said that rejected this canadian government argument the dispute-settlement panel mrs. hills yesterday .
said `` fully expect that will comply canada with the panel 's ruling that also must be ended the `` landing requirement '' , we '' she .
earlier , determined that violated gatt rules the original canadian fish-export restrictions an international panel set up under the rules of the general agreement on tariffs and trade in geneva .
said wo n't accept any delays the u.s. after nov. 13 because enter to purchase the next season 's catch u.s. fish-processing firms into contracts in the fall mrs. hills .
said must be removed the canadian restrictions before is concluded such contracts she .
to spend a carefree , idle day , when call duty , to pay no heed , to while away the precious hours -- is what need you character .
should somehow be advised that can read his lips we at home the guy who throw an intercept 'cause slip his receiver .
said completed a restructuring agreement previously agreed to by the federal deposit insurance corp. , creditor banks and subordinated debenture holders it bancoklahoma corp. .
would permit the bank holding company to retire its bank and debenture obligations through exchanges of cash and equity the plan .
will continue to maintain $ 90 million in preferred stock in the tulsa bank unit the fdic , which in 1986 provided $ 130 million in open-bank assistance to bancoklahoma 's bank of oklahoma , tulsa , unit .
in exchange for the other $ 40 million , will receive additional warrants entitling it to buy up from the 55 % option received the fdic under terms of the 1986 capital infusion 60 % of bancoklahoma 's common stock outstanding , the fdic .
said in exchange for the $ 76 million is owed they , will receive 3.9 million shares of bancoklahoma common stock and the proceeds from the future sales of four subsidiary banks to private buyers , creditor banks the bank holding company .
said also under the agreement , will get one million shares of common stock debenture holders in exchange for $ 7.7 million in debentures and will receive 1.25 shares of common stock for every share of preferred own they , holders of bancoklahoma 's series a preferred stock the company .
were it true that pave the way for trade surpluses , a weak currency then presumably argentina would be the center of today 's global economy .
said will begin an offer it tomorrow to exchange up to one million of its common shares and all of its $ 16.6 million in 7 3/4 % convertible debentures due 2001 for a package of new debt and common stock warrants bsn corp. .
under terms of the offer , will swap $ 9 face amount of 9 1/4 % subordinated notes due 1996 and one warrant the sporting goods maker for each common share .
allow the holder to buy one bsn share for $ 10.75 a share at any time over the next seven years each warrant .
currently have 4.6 million common shares outstanding bsn .
also is offering $ 850 face amount of new notes and 64 common-stock warrants bsn for each $ 1,000 face amount of its convertible debt outstanding .
said can redeem the warrants it at its option for $ 1 each the company .
is the offer n't contingent on a certain amount of debt or stock being exchanged .
said is making the offer it to shrink its capital and increase shareholder value bsn .
said if accept the offer , all the bondholders and holders of one million common shares will increase its debt bsn by $ 9 million , but also will recognize a $ 2 million gain from retiring the old debt , it michael j. blumenfeld , president .
said `` have sufficient cash flow to handle that , we '' he .
is scheduled to expire in mid to late november the offers .
dropped 37 % , merrill lynch & co. 's net income while posted a 7.5 % gain in net , bear stearns cos. and fell painewebber group inc. 's profit , but would have risen a year ago without a special gain .
reached up 10 % from $ 2.57 billion $ 2.83 billion , total revenue .
reflected weaker revenue in transactions for its own account -- a decline of 19 % to $ 314.6 million on reduced revenue from trading fixed-income securities the firm 's drop in net .
fell 22 % investment banking revenue to $ 296.6 million on fewer equity and municipal underwritings .
grew however , 21 % , merrill lynch 's commission revenue to $ 462.8 million , on higher share prices and volume and on strong sales of mutual funds .
jumped 30 % revenue derived from interest and dividends to $ 1.4 billion .
grew 12 % asset-management fee revenue to $ 151 million .
also reported a loss of $ 2.2 million from the discontinued operations and disposal of its fine homes international limited partnership real-estate subsidiary the brokerage .
said reached $ 22.1 million , or 23 cents a share , net in the first quarter ended sept. 29 from $ 20.5 million , or 20 cents a share , in the year-earlier quarter bear stearns .
rose 21 % gross revenue to $ 580.4 million from $ 478.9 million .
said dropped profit from trading for its own account , the securities firm .
climbed 25 % , investment banking revenue while advanced 31 % commission revenue on a stronger retail market .
is bear stearns the holding company for bear , stearns & co. , the investment banking and brokerage firm .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed down 25 cents bear stearns shares at $ 13.625 , .
separately , posted net income for the third quarter of $ 16.8 million , or 41 cents a share , reflecting a `` broad-based improvement '' in the company 's core businesses painewebber .
surged retail profit , but said was it only a `` modest contributor '' to third-quarter results the company .
a year ago , was net at the new york investment banking firm $ 20.9 million , or 50 cents a share , including a special pretax gain of $ 46.3 million from the sale of the company 's interest in national car rental systems inc .
was revenue $ 444.9 million , including net interest , down slightly from $ 450.7 million .
in big board composite trading yesterday , closed up 75 cents painewebber at $ 18.50 , .
said signed an agreement with builder martin selig to purchase its headquarters building , the columbia seafirst center , for $ 354 million it seafirst corp. .
is purchase of the 76-story structure subject to execution of a definitive agreement , approval by the boards of seafirst and its parent company bankamerica corp. , and approval by regulators .
apparently have n't triggered yet any cash crunch the market upheaval -- .
can suffer liquidity and payment problems individual investors , investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates when dive stocks ; often borrow heavily to buy their holdings those investors and use the stocks as collateral for loans .
but said detected no signs of unusual demand for credit that would signal such difficulties they several large banks yesterday .
said `` be seeing nothing out of the ordinary , we '' one official at a top 10 bank .
`` be that good news , because swim we all in this water . ''
added `` was we all a little goosey over the weekend trying to forecast what would happen -lcb- monday -rcb- , but it 's been very quiet another executive at a big bank : .
shows that is not yet sufficiently coordinated to handle another meltdown in prices financial markets what happened friday .
will ever prevent markets no fiddling with systems and procedures from suffering a panic wave of selling .
but can operate markets with greater or lesser efficiency .
after the 1987 plunge , agreed that it would be wise to halt trading whenever arose panic conditions markets .
adopted two specific circuit breakers : if fall 250 points the dow jones index in a day , the exchange will halt trading for one hour ; if hit 400 points , the decline will close the exchange for an additional two hours the new york stock exchange .
is that will allow investors to reconsider their strategies , calm sellers and lead buyers to enter the market at indicated new price levels an interruption of trading the rationale .
is it impossible to know whether that theory is realistic .
may indeed discourage a selling panic a temporary cessation of trading from feeding on itself .
but there is also the possibility that will intensify fears shutting down markets and cause an even more abrupt slide in prices .
followed their own pre-set circuit breakers the futures exchanges and shut down at about 3 p.m. for 30 minutes , after had fallen 12 points , or about 100 points on the dow jones index the standard & poor 's 500 stock index .
stopped trading in many securities options markets .
under its own rules , remained open the new york stock exchange , .
with nowhere else to go , focused all their selling sellers , and particularly program traders , on the new york stock exchange .
as weakened liquidity on that market , fell sharply prices .
had the futures and options markets been open , would have been provided additional liquidity and the decline , most probably , would have been less intense .
at 3:30 , after intense telephone negotiations between the trading markets and washington , reopened the futures exchanges .
however , was halted altogether futures trading , at 3:45 , after had dropped an additional 30 points , which is the daily limit for price declines the futures markets .
at this point , also shut down the options markets and once more left all sales to be handled by the new york stock exchange .
is it time to recognize that though physically separate , have actually become so closely intertwined as to constitute effectively one market the new york stock exchange , the futures markets and the options markets , .
can vary their strategies traders and execute their orders in any one of them .
therefore make no sense it for to adopt different circuit breakers each market .
would not have halted the slide in prices on friday , synchronized circuit breakers but probably would have made they for smoother , less volatile executions .
it 's time for to agree the exchanges and the securities and exchange commission on joint conditions for halting trading or staying open .
let 's not have shut down one market for 30 minutes when decline 100 points the dow and shut down another for an hour after a 250-point decline .
will disappear the need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials once is rules in place that synchronize circuit breakers in all markets .
if is to be applied at all , they will require that continue as long as remain open the new york stock exchange futures and options trading the new circuit breakers , .
should be established the rules by agreement of the officials of all affected exchanges acting under the oversight and with the approval of the government regulatory agencies .
should the sec and the commodities futures trading commission ( which , with the sec , regulates the chicago stock-index markets ) be unable to agree , may have to be resolved by decision of the treasury secretary the issue .
in many ways , is better prepared to handle a decline our financial markets today than was two years ago they .
now have the capacity to handle a volume of nearly a billion shares a day the new york stock exchange .
have been improved telephone service for customers trying to reach their brokers , and have larger capital positions specialists -- who believe should stay , i despite the urgings of some post-crash critics -- .
( of course , can never prevent a major crack in stock prices specialists ' actions alone .
witness the fact that closed early friday trading in some stocks and opened late monday because of an excess of sell orders ) .
but remain unfinished the task of improving market performance .
is mr. freund , former chief economist of the new york stock exchange , a professor of economics at pace university 's business school in new york .
pose labor problems and prospects for u.s. firms a unified europe .
say could set the effort the `` social dimension '' -- worker concerns -- of the european community 's plan to open its internal borders in 1992 `` off the rails '' if not done reasonably , general electric senior vice president frank doyle .
say face `` tough pressure '' from unions u.s. companies wanting to expand in europe in nations such as west germany , which play a big consulting role in management decisions , he .
say also wo n't like plant relocations and needed restructuring , which mean layoffs unions fmc corp. and baxter international .
have already begun moving to southern countries such as spain and italy , where is wages low and is unions weaker many employers ; will rise there , demand for trained labor and managers say fmc .
see big `` ec '' 92 pluses : a push for job training and ease in moving and finding workers pfizer , fluor and ge .
so said a federal judge , in a case involving two players for the minor league bluefield , va. , orioles , a baltimore farm team .
was heckled the players by a patron during a july 4 , 1988 , game with the martinsville phillies .
said like its parent that year , `` was not having bluefield a good year , '' the judge .
after the game ( noted `` lost 9-8 , stranding three runners in ... the ninth , bluefield , '' he ) , began trouble .
said the players , led more taunting in the parking lot , to a fight .
said was punched he and kicked by one player and that broke his jaw the other with a baseball bat the fan .
dismissed however , the fan 's suit against the team , the judge ruling the orioles innocent of negligent hiring , and not responsible for a fight that was outside the players ' employment .
arise proposals for coping with the shortage of nurses .
urge freeing nurses from duties that do n't require special skills an association of academic health centers report .
also recommend better retirement and day-care benefits , and basing pay on education , experience and nurses ' demanding work schedules it .
but oppose an american medical association proposal for creating a `` registered care technologist , '' it as `` potentially divisive '' ; say would entail an unwanted new doctor 's `` bedside '' extension the job it .
sign up nurses mra staffing systems for paid travel , promising annual income up to $ 50,000 and free or subsidized housing .
say treating employees with respect is crucial for managers , consultant hay group after surveys of a million workers .
be it in their top five `` work values . ''
say be satisfied they with where work they fully 80 % of employees who say treat them their bosses with respect , but only a third of those who do n't feel respected .
sprucing up the digs : for four months painted walls , about 200 employees of the maryland department of economic and employment development polished floors , and carpeted bought plants , cleaned windows and blinds , and hung pictures at the agency 's baltimore office .
will save $ 55,000 the 3,000 hours of work the state .
indicate will get again high priority curbing wage boosts in 1990 collective bargaining , a bureau of national affairs survey of 250 companies with pacts expiring next year .
despite labor-shortage warnings , aim 80 % for first-year wage increases of under 4 % ; and say 'd try to replace workers , they if struck , or would consider it 77 % .
say have good educations , temporary workers the national association of temporary services ; show 82 % with more than a high-school education , and 31 % with college degrees its survey of 2,508 such employees .
have retired about 12 % from a full-time job , while was asked to stay on full time 54 % .
rise home-sale losses , but be often covered they by employers .
but search they for ways to limit the damage .
reimburse about 72 % for all or some losses .
say since 1984 , give sales-loss aid , more companies as depreciated many real-estate values , the council .
pay up to $ 30,000 of losses , including improvements rjr nabisco .
wo n't ensure loss coverage , goodrich but will prevent a `` catastrophic loss '' ; have given the full purchase price when fell values from concern over dangers posed by a disposal site it some employees .
will buy the home federal express , dow chemical , ford and national city corp. or let sell the worker to an outside firm , but usually wo n't cover a loss .
since 1984 , rose firms offering prepurchase house appraisals , to deter overpaying , to 40 % of those polled the council , from 28 % .
the checkoff : give a $ 350,000 achievement award the national academy of engineering two inventors of the semiconductor microchip ... .
now , be that reactionary : accuse philadelphia postmaster charles james letter carriers union president vincent sombrotto of `` 12th century ... oppressive management tactics .
was yesterday , in the words of new york stock exchange chairman john j. phelan jr. , just your `` reasonably normal , 400 million-share , up 88-points day . ''
when was over it all and had staged a huge recovery , stocks was big board officials self-congratulatory about how well had gone the day .
said could n't have performed better the exchange 's trading procedures , personnel , equipment and links with other exchanges they .
said `` had no operating problems at all , we '' mr. phelan after closed the market .
`` worked extremely well all the things set up that to slow down the process , to let people know that was the market in an extreme position , we '' .
said was carried prices for the 416.3 million shares that changed hands during the session on the exchange 's trading tape with barely a delay , officials .
while reaching blockbuster proportions yesterday , was the volume still well within the 600 million-share capacity have said that can handle daily it since beefing up its computers after the october 1987 crash the exchange .
was n't triggered the so-called circuit breakers devised to quell free falls in stock and futures prices by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange yesterday because was the markets higher for most of the day .
despite traders ' complaints , said worked as planned to provide a cooling-off period the links with the chicago futures market in friday 's rout mr. phelan .
of greater help , said the big board chairman , was the `` natural circuit breaker '' of the weekend , that provided a breathing period `` brought back rationality that to the market .
ruffled chicken chains by loss of customers
is struggling to hatch some new marketing strategies fast-food chicken chains , faced with a worsening business slump , .
say fell 10 % customer traffic at chicken restaurants in the second quarter , while was down 2 % the overall fast-food customer count the crest report , which track consumer purchases , .
say is chicken business off largely because of more competition from grocery-store convenience food , home-delivered pizza and other takeout fare , a spokesman for the report , a publication of npd group , a market research firm in port washington , n.y .
is the loss of more customers the latest in a string of problems .
is still troubled church 's fried chicken inc. and popeye 's famous fried chicken inc. , which have merged , by overlapping restaurant locations .
also is feeling more pressure from mcdonald 's corp. , which introduced its mcchicken sandwich this year and recently tested the sale of individual pieces of chicken chicken chains .
have fought back new management at kentucky fried chicken , a unit of pepsico inc. , with new medium and large chicken sandwiches for the lunch crowd .
and is testing products that are n't fried , such as `` char-grilled '' chicken , the chain to try to win health-conscious consumers .
also is testing home-delivery of chicken , which could be a hit with stay-at-home diners kentucky fried chicken .
but say must be solved first problems with keeping chicken warm and fresh some fast-food industry analysts .
however , disputed the notion that experienced problems in some markets where have been discontinued testing the delivery service a kentucky fried chicken spokesman , .
say is continuing the test in chicago , columbus , ohio , and a few other cities he .
is buzzing the advertising industry with rumors that will drop young & rubicam kentucky fried chicken and seek a new ad agency .
but decline to comment the company .
predict will post an 11 % drop in 1989 net income kentucky fried chicken emanuel goldman , a painewebber inc. analyst , .
`` they 've been laggard , '' say he , `` but '' 'll have to become more aggressive they .
try soft-sell spots reluctant advertisers
is selling a soft approach pittsburgh consultant david bear to clients who want exposure yet shun pushy ads .
his ploy : 60-second radio spots that offer helpful hints .
is the only plug for the sponsor a brief mention at the end of the spot .
resemble the business traveler , a daily dose of travel tips developed by mr. bear and sponsored by travel agencies in several major cities the messages .
include burt hill kosar rittlemann associates , a butler , pa. , architectural firm new un-advertisers .
feature such spots as `` floodlights : evening wear for urban structures '' and `` building a place to park '' its radio series .
say john kosar , the firm 's president , `` would detract a harder sell , from the profession '' .
have signed up to use the messages to promote fundraisers , hospitals and is considering the format equitable gas co. to offer energy tips to consumers .
say `` there be always a risk of lost messages , '' john fitzgerald , chairman of ketchum advertising usa , which created similar radio spots for pittsburgh national bank .
`` be it a question of gain how much credibility you for the possible loss of recognition . ''
see pitfalls retailer in environmental push
here be a retailer that 's getting tough in the push for environmentally safe packaging and products .
plan to display shelf cards and distribute pamphlets recommending products deemed safe for the environment big bear supermarkets inc. , a grocery chain based in san diego , .
will be based the choices on research by the san diego environmental health coalition and will include products like murphy 's oil soap and other noncorrosive cleaners .
but is quickly realizing the pitfalls of such endorsements the chain .
for example , recommend nonchlorinated dishwasher detergent it and put sunlight on its environmentally safe list .
do n't thrill procter & gamble co. , maker of cascade dishwasher detergent that .
questioned the validity of the list , a company spokesman noting that is chlorine present in all major dishwasher detergents .
in fact , confirm that do contain chlorine bleach , its sunlight brand though even is n't listed it on the label for the powder version lever bros. .
said is still reviewing its product list the chain to avoid such problems thomas g. dahlen , big bear 's executive vice president , .
say `` is to promote the best alternative , our intent '' he .
`` and be it important that we be accurate . ''
but in the end , is what will prevail customers ' wishes .
do n't care big bear for disposable diapers , which are n't biodegradable .
yet demand them parents .
say `` 'll still be forced to sell items might not philosophically agree we with we '' mr. dahlen , .
do count neatness -- at least in the grocery store .
show climbed 5 % soap sales when was neatly stacked bars on shelves instead of dumped in a wire basket a study by safeway 's scanner marketing research ... .
is which celebrity endorsers most believable ?
for the third year in a row , voted bill cosby first and james garner second in persuasiveness as spokesmen in tv commercials , consumers according to video storyboard tests , new york .
replaced bruce willis michael j. fox in third place ; placed fourth cher for the second time .
said have chosen antonia novello to be the next surgeon general , health and human services secretary louis sullivan bush administration officials .
if is nominated she by president bush and confirmed by the senate , would succeed c. everett koop , who rattled liberals and conservatives alike with his outspoken views on a range of health issues dr. novello .
is dr. novello , an expert on pediatric kidney diseases , deputy director of the national institute of child health and human development .
have also served she on several task forces on acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
said would n't talk she with reporters , dr. novello 's office and refused to release any information about her it .
said the newsletter medicine & health , which first disclosed her selection by dr. sullivan , is she 44 years old and studied she at the university of puerto rico school of medicine .
is the continuing series of hud scandals a sadly predictable result of pork-barrel politics .
nevertheless , continue to pressure capitol hill for more special-interest spending lobbies such as the national association of home builders ( nahb ) .
argue that face a multifaceted housing crisis -- reduced affordability of homes for first-time buyers , increased homelessness , and lower apartment construction rates -- that will be `` very difficult '' to solve `` without expanded federal resources '' the u.s. kent colton , nahb executive vice president , .
there be nothing unusual about business groups pushing for more government spending .
but was created the nahb out of an organization that made its name fighting a roosevelt administration proposal to take over all defense housing production in 1943 .
argue `` have dropped the hud budget by more than 70 % since 1980 , '' mr. colton .
`` have taken more than our fair share we .
would n't have a problem i if had taken a similar hit other programs '' .
but is not related nahb support for subsidies to the current housing crunch ; over the years have backed a host of public programs the nahb .
once pushed it for a national housing production goal set by the federal government and have regularly advanced anti-recession housing measures .
explain one hud official , moreover , remain susceptible to internal pressure from members that specialize in subsidized production the nahb .
is pushing an extensive and expensive wish-list , which would substantially boost spending above the current level of more than $ 15 billion annually the association .
would like to peg the ceiling on federal housing administration mortgage guarantees to 95 % of the median price in a particular market , instead of limiting it to $ 101,250 ; reduce fha down-payment requirements ( or even eliminate ) and increase the availability of variable-rate mortgages ; expand the veterans affairs department loan guarantee program ; provide `` adequate '' funding for the farmers home administration ( fmha ) ; increase federal funding and tax incentives for the construction of low-income and rental housing , including $ 4 billion in block grants to states and localities ; and `` fully fund the mckinney act , a $ 656 million potpourri for the homeless '' it .
have proved intolerably expensive direct federal subsidies for housing construction in the past , and inevitably are twisted to the benefit of well-connected developers and lobbyists , as demonstrated by the ongoing hud scandal , or congressmen .
through the fha , for instance , is indirect subsidies , little better .
though say would result expanding fha lending in `` no cost to the government , '' mr. colton would result the mere diversion of funds from other parts of the economy and from other forms of housing ( such as low-income ) to the single-family home market in a major expense .
more important , is housing programs run by hud , the va , and fmha awash in red ink .
lost $ 4.2 billion the fha alone in fiscal 1988 ; fell the government 's equity in the agency , essentially its reserve fund , to minus $ 2.9 billion .
have had to pump in $ 2.28 billion into the va housing program since 1984 to keep the fund afloat the federal government and requested an additional $ 120 million the va for the fiscal year just ended .
all told , already guarantee more than $ 900 billion of mortgages the federal government .
in its nicely produced publication `` where will live our children ? '' do acknowledge that `` of course , can not be provided the full measure of housing affordability by the federal government '' the nahb .
point it to the pernicious impact of local government regulation , particularly zoning and building fees , which push the price of housing out of the reach of low- and middle-income people .
but while have suggested actions should take that to reduce regulatory barriers , states and localities the nahb have proposed no activist legislative program -- comparable to , say , its detailed request for more federal subsidies -- to eliminate counterproductive controls the association .
is the association , build fewer than 25 units a year , a majority of whose 156,000 members like many other business lobbies .
explain `` tread it in two worlds sheila macdonald of the national taxpayers union : .
like the subsidies , the builders but at the same time tend to be fiscal conservatives in terms of major issues , such as the balanced-budget amendment they '' .
unfortunately , tend to override its commitment to overall fiscal responsibility the organization 's desire for pork .
say when lobbied the nahb for the $ 19 billion omnibus housing bill , `` two years ago basically dropped the organization out of the taxpayers ' coalition , '' ms. macdonald .
as acknowledge mr. colton of the nahb : `` is not going to solve the problem government ... .
is to have working the economy and interest rates down the real key '' .
will increase the deficit more money for hud and destabilize the economy ; will further insulate them more money to municipalities that is wrecking their local housing markets from the destructive effects of their policies .
is this what want the home builders ?
is mr. bandow a cato institute fellow .
( see related story : `` and bills to make come true wishes '' -- wsj oct. 17 , 1989 .
in an attempt to give new momentum to european community plans for a single currency , is ec government leaders likely to agree to set a date for starting formal talks on amending the ec 's founding treaty of rome .
according to diplomatic sources in brussels , agree that should begin talks in the second half of 1990 , and will make a declaration on that during a summit meeting in strasbourg , france , on dec. 8 and 9 most ec leaders .
come the only strong opposition to changing the ec treaty from british prime minister margaret thatcher , who is opposed to creating a single ec currency .
but do n't require unanimity the process of convening the intergovernmental conference .
fought to set a date for the conference french president francois mitterrand during the ec summit in madrid last june , but was scuttled the move because of opposition by mrs. thatcher and west german chancellor helmut kohl .
said may now agree to set a date for the conference to make clear that is still committed it west germany to ec unity mr. kohl diplomatic sources .
remind me the latest crewcut in the equities markets of the joke tell t. boone pickens about the guy who was run over by the parade .
when asked `` what went wrong '' ? replied `` was it a combination of things '' the unfortunate victim , .
and so was it on gray friday .
would appear to have been excess leverage the grand marshal of this parade .
if even is so , that however , be it probably the case that should have been erected to stop the procession before the end of the rout ( e ) no barriers .
began the ceremonies friday afternoon when spread that was collapsing the ual buy-out word .
although expect to patch together a substitute offer , consisting of less cash , the union-bidder confirmed a growing fear among arbitragers that is ending the pageant of high-leverage takeover deals the failure to get cash from japanese and american banks .
made up the parade , lots of other entries of course -- notably a surprisingly large increase in producer prices , signalling federal reserve tightness ; and the bush administration 's ( temporary ? ) defeat in trying to lower the capital-gains tax .
as usual , was heard few favorable reviews for that ever-present marching band of program traders , although suggest only play the music that write others they most serious studies .
what really spooked the crowds along wall street , however , was the sudden concern that , whatever the reason , is drying up the pool of debt capital .
reflect a panic mainly by the takeover arbitragers , rather than the small investor , gray friday as is jeopardized their highly margined investments in the `` deal '' stocks by the unexpected drying up of the lubricant for deal financing .
led down the market deal stocks as absorbed the heaviest losses they .
opened down about 20 % from thursday 's close ual , which triggered the slide , monday at $ 224 , .
opened down nearly 20 % from thursday 's close amr monday at $ 80 , .
lost 20 % hilton on friday ; lost almost 11 % paramount .
reveal that where have been secured deal financing , was not affected the target 's stock price on friday a careful look .
was the multibillion-dollar prospects , where must line up a consortium of banks the bidder and/or issue billions in high-yield debt , where was concentrated the damage .
have been setting the stage the market for so-called junk bonds for friday 's dramatic march for several weeks .
have cast a pall the growing financial difficulties of recent high-leverage restructurings or takeovers , such as resorts international , integrated resources , and campeau 's retailing empire , over the entire market for high-yield securities .
have reacted investors by ignoring recent efforts to float junk bonds by ohio mattress and by forcing ramada to postpone indefinitely its planned junk-bond sale and restructuring .
as a result , have declined high-yield mutual funds across the board and is experiencing anxious times the many firms planning to sell $ 11 billion in junk bonds before year-end .
is these all market excesses ( putting aside the artificial boosts give that the tax code to debt over equity ) , and is what 've seen we reining in them the market .
of course , washington had n't been silent in the days leading up to the debacle , and remain a troublesome prospect , its tendency to meddle in the leverage equation but should n't distract us those preliminary steps from the basic market fundamentalism that was at work on friday .
if is it correct to find that caused concerns over corporate debt and lbos gray friday , what is the implications for policy makers ?
after all , might be taken to confirm the anti-debt direction of regulators the stock market 's response to the collapse of the ual deal .
is this a case where is approving private markets of washington 's bashing of wall street ?
to the extent that reflected a sudden reappraisal of the excesses of leverage , friday 's sell-off is that is wall street and the private markets fully capable of imposing the appropriate incentives and sanctions on corporate behavior the message .
is much better served allowing the private interests of bankers and investors be the ultimate judges of the investment quality of various lbo deals and leveraged restructurings the national economic interests .
underscore the wisdom of letting operate the free markets the recent difficulties in the junk-bond markets and the scarcity of bank capital for recent deals .
if become excessive , takeover premiums if become too aggressive , lbo dealmakers then will recognize more quickly and accurately than will policy makers , these problems the private market and will move to impose appropriate sanctions the markets with lightning speed .
yes , got caught up the broader exchanges in the spiral , but rode up the tiger they all year .
not surprisingly , sometimes bite he .
got killed the arbitragers and takeover initiatiors on gray friday , while cheered lustily the besieged managers of prospective targets .
if identify you with the besieged managers , must concede that is speedy and effective relief from the excesses of the takeover market more likely to come from the marketplace than from washington you .
if side you with the arbitragers and raiders , clearly have more to fear from private investors than from regulators , you although should never be underestimated the delaware courts .
is understand better than economics politics washington the truth , .
although is probably not harmed too much the average citizen from washington 's rhetorical war against wall street regarding excessive financial leveraging , would probably impose considerable harm actual legislation .
is any such attempt to distinguish `` good debt '' from `` bad debt , '' or to draw the line at a particular industry , such as the airlines , likely to blunt the spur provide that the proper amount of leverage both to equity markets and economic efficiency in general .
far better for to concentrate policy makers on the war against drugs , panama and the deficit , all of them parades that seem never to end .
teach mr. jarrell , former top economist at the securities and exchange commission , at the university of rochester 's simon business school .
rebounded tokyo share prices tuesday morning , with rising 618.69 points the nikkei index of 225 selected stocks to close the morning session at 35087.38 .
slid 647.33 points , or 1.8 % , the index on monday .
in the first 25 minutes of tuesday 's trading soared 664.83 points , the nikkei index to 35133.83 .
by 10 a.m. tokyo time , was up 435.11 points , to 34903.80 the index as hailed new york 's overnight rally investors .
came monday 's slide in a relatively calm session that did n't provide much direction for other markets .
also closed sharply lower shares across europe , particularly in frankfurt , although recovered some ground london and a few other markets after began to rebound in new york stocks .
had sharper losses than tokyo , other asian and pacific markets but stopped short of precipitating another market crash the selling wave .
was all eyes on tokyo at the opening because was it the first major market to trade since friday 's 190.58-point plunge on wall street .
but rather than set the tone for other markets , chose to remain on the sidelines japan 's major institutional investors .
despite the sudden reappearance of stock-market turbulence , still , said was n't planning to unload u.s. or european equities they managers of japanese investment funds .
said `` did n't trade much we today , as is to wait and see , our policy now '' a fund manager at taisho life insurance co .
`` would like to wait and see until go around trading through europe and new york we '' .
appeared confident that would step in to ensure orderly trading japanese regulators if necessary , the institutions and there was considerable speculation during the day that was working to do just that the finance ministry behind the scenes .
but in the absence of panicky trading , was never overtly felt its presence .
at the close , stood down 647.33 points , or 1.8 % the nikkei average of 225 stocks at 34468.69 , .
sank 45.66 , or 1.7 % , the broader tokyo stock price index to 2600.88 .
was the day 's decline generally in line with analysts ' weekend predictions .
swamped 941-105 advancers , declining issues .
but was volume thin at 526.2 million shares , compared with 574.7 million friday .
opened sharply lower , the market with the nikkei average down nearly 600 after 20 minutes .
brought back it a midmorning rebound to show a gain of about 200 at the end of the morning session , but failed the rally in the afternoon , and closed the market near the day 's low .
also posted their biggest decline of the year the smaller stocks in the tokyo market 's second section .
fell 100.96 , or 2.7 % , the tokyo stock exchange index for the second section to 3655.40 .
have flocked many investors , trying to outperform the market 's major indexes , to these small issues in recent weeks .
expressed relief that did n't fall more sharply the tokyo market japanese investors and traders .
but did bear some resemblance to events of two years ago , during the october 1987 global stock market crash its performance .
on oct. 16 , 1987 -- the friday before the black monday crash -- dropped 4.6 % , the new york market and followed tokyo on monday with a 2.4 % drop .
this time , was followed wall street 's plunge of 6.9 % friday by yesterday 's 1.8 % loss in tokyo .
two years ago , came tokyo 's biggest fall the day after new york 's 22.6 % black monday plunge , when fell 14.9 % the nikkei average .
yesterday thus , was looking ahead nervously market participants to wall street 's opening .
but in new york yesterday , surged 88.12 the dow jones industrial average to close at 2657.38 on heavy volume of 416,290,000 shares , although still outnumbered advancing ones declining issues on the broad market .
called yesterday 's session `` a good scenario '' for japan nobuto yasuda , a director at yamaichi investment trust & management co. , .
said `` now is looking we for the time to place buy orders , '' he .
`` for us institutional investors , have come the chance for buying '' .
also was isao ushikubo , general manager of the investment research department at toyo trust & banking co. , optimistic .
described friday 's plunge in the u.s. he as a `` fleeting '' event resulting in part from excessive merger and acquisition activity .
said `` unless there is a panic , is this the best time to buy , as was the case two years ago , '' he .
`` was dashed those shares which had posted gains on m&a speculation with cold water , but as far as is concerned major stocks , there is n't much impact '' .
was other fund managers similarly sanguine .
said `` have no plans to adjust our asset allocation in foreign equities , we '' masato murakami , chief portfolio manager in the pension fund management department at yasuda trust & banking co .
said was friday 's wall street decline `` well within the range of volatility '' that for plan yasuda trust when chart its overseas investment strategy it he .
among other asian and pacific markets , had the biggest losses , malaysia and singapore with falling 11.5 % the kuala lumpur composite index in malaysia and singapore 's straits times industrial index down 10 % .
declined more than 8 % in australia and new zealand and 6.5 % in hong kong major indexes .
escaped bangkok , manila , seoul , taipei and jakarta with slightly smaller losses .
said was reacting the region 's markets to friday 's wall street plunge even though was that decline due to local factors such as failed corporate buy-outs and a deteriorating junk-bond market brokers and fund managers .
said `` be it pure psychology , '' william au yeung , an account executive for drexel burnham lambert ( hk ) ltd. in hong kong .
`` is n't so geared markets in this region to leveraged buy-outs , and generally is their economies in good shape , but there be no doubt that is still following america 's lead asia '' .
said had the biggest losses malaysia and singapore because is they relatively open to rapid cash flows several analysts .
is hong kong the region 's next most open market , but have been staying away many foreign investors from it since plunged it in june amid political turmoil in china .
said `` took the hit singapore when want to get out , people because tend to go where is the liquidity , they '' elizabeth hambrecht , a regional analyst with baring securities ( hong kong ) ltd .
pointed out that even after monday 's 10 % decline , is up 24 % the straits times index this year , she so generally did so profitably investors who bailed out .
yesterday similarly , ended 27.5 % above its 1988 close kuala lumpur 's composite index .
in hong kong , fell 180.60 the hang seng index to finish at 2601.70 .
was trading heavy at about one billion shares , compared with 473.9 million friday .
but was the session orderly , in contrast to the market 's four-day closure after the 1987 crash .
said probably have n't hit yet bottom the market but is close richard chenevix-trench , a director at hong kong-based baring international fund managers ltd. , .
said `` if do n't collapse new york , see maybe another 5 % i on the downside , not counting the risk of bad news out of china , '' he .
in australia , closed down 8.1 % , sydney 's all ordinaries index at 1601.5 , its biggest drop since october 1987 .
but rose only volume to 162 million shares from 143 million friday .
described the market 's performance nestor hinzack , an analyst at brokerage firm burdett , buckeridge & young ltd. , as `` sheep-like '' as fled investors to bluechip australian stocks and shunned entrepreneurial companies perceived they as having built any takeover premium into the price .
ended down 70.5 , or 3.2 % london 's financial times-stock exchange 100-share index , the most closely watched market barometer , at its intraday high of 2163.4 , .
at its low , before shortly opened wall street , was off more than 130 points it .
closed 79.3 points lower the financial times 30-share index at 1738.7 .
more than doubled volume to 959.3 million shares from 457.7 million friday .
tumbled prices on the frankfurt stock exchange in heavy trading .
was the decline in the german stock index of 203.56 points , or 12.8 % , to 1385.72 the frankfurt market 's steepest fall ever .
dumped holdings retail investors on a massive scale , pushing down as much as 20 % some blue-chip shares .
cited memories of two years ago , when held many small investors on to their shares after the october crash but continued to decline steeply for the next three months the west german market analysts .
to make them directly comparable , is based each index on equaling 100 the close of 1969 .
is the percentage change since year-end .
is reported to have said once that if tipped the world you on its side , would end up everything loose in california frank lloyd wright .
have always thought that underestimated california 's vitality , mr. wright we but maybe is starting to overwhelm the forces that made it such a significant place the state 's la-la factions .
if passed by the voters , would phase out major pesticides , the recently announced initiative reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40 % , ban new offshore drilling , ban chemicals thought to deplete the ozone layer , and create a new state environmental officer armed with a $ 40 million budget to sue any firm or agency think is being too dirty he .
is based largely the initiative on the wish-lists of the green lobby : the sierra club , the league of conservation voters , the natural resources defense council , the national toxics campaign and the citizens for a better environment .
interestingly , is having nothing to do with this one the environmental defense fund .
would pay not only californians but all americans if passed this thing .
bar the sale of any crops in california that do n't meet the initiative 's standards the initiative .
would have to adjust or give up the california market kansas wheat farmers and florida fruit growers .
in other words , is presuming to take control of the nation 's farm policy california .
as usual is disconnected the green lobby 's proposal from scientific reality .
would mandate a reduction of carbon dioxide of 40 % the proposed initiative .
if even buys one into the whole greenhouse theory , is it inconceivable that could have any impact on what is billed as a global problem reductions in a single state .
under these circumstances is the first place to look at the ways in which will benefit the sponsors themselves .
here is the key the ambition of state attorney general john van de kamp .
be running he for governor .
is mr. van de kamp the one who collected the plans from the various radical environmental groups and cobbled them into a single unwieldy initiative to be placed on the ballot for election on nov. 6 , 1990 .
be that also the day of the gubernatorial election .
seem to have been crafted to include all the hot issues that set off the wealthy hollywood weepers who donate money the initiative .
and allow mr. van de kamp to get around campaign spending limits it .
can spend the legal maximum for his campaign he ; is all the spending for the van de kamp initiative ( on which there is no limits ) gravy .
is being labeled the big green , this initiative but maybe should be called the big greenback it .
( is playing too , the initiative fundraising game the republican candidate , sen. pete wilson , sponsoring his own crime initiative ) .
while is it possible that will be ruled unconstitutional , the big green initiative is it of course conceivable that in modern california could slide through it .
is this the state that recently passed the prop. 65 anti-toxic initiative .
if ever do become law , this new proposal will benefit directly the green lobby .
create a free floating state environmental officer to sue companies or government agencies that do things do n't like he the initiative .
mean no longer would have to spend as much money on litigation the nrdc and such groups that ; would bear the cost taxpayers .
may be hoping that is the environment such a mom and apple-pie issue among certain segments of california 's population now that can pass almost any collection of anti-scientific , anti-pocketbook nonsense under its rubric mr. van de kamp and his allies .
of course is the state 's liberals not yet a nation unto themselves .
for example , may decide that do n't want he to be the president who lost control of interstate commerce to an attorney general from california george bush , .
and may yet start to point out that would impose significant costs the initiative on the state 's less affluent citizens in the form of higher food prices and lost jobs some other segments of california 's political and media culture .
will help define itself california for the future either as a state still tethered to economic and scientific reality , or as one being led to wherever want to take it its la-la activists this grandiose initiative .
first , there was a death watch .
spurred by waves of large-scale buying in blue-chip stocks , rallied the dow jones industrial average yesterday and erased about a half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , gaining 88.12 to 2657.38 .
was it the fourth-biggest advance for the average of 30 blue chips , on frenetic new york stock exchange volume of 416,290,000 shares -- the highest since the days after the 1987 crash .
while cheered investors who feared would occur a 1987-style crash yesterday , the advance was it strictly a big-stock rally fed by huge buying by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
a troubling sign : outnumbered 975 to 749 , advancers , declining stocks on the big board and suffered aftershocks of friday 's late big board plunge the over-the-counter market that include many smaller stocks .
closed down 6.31 to 460.98 the nasdaq otc index .
in a divergence in two of the market 's most important indicators , meanwhile , tumbled 102.06 the dow industrials ' sister average , the 20-stock dow jones transportation average , to 1304.23 -- its second-worst decline next to the 164.78-point fall during the 1987 crash .
plunged transports on takeover disappointments in two airline stocks , ual and amr , which each fell more than 20 % when reopened they for trading yesterday after being suspended friday afternoon .
fell 56 7/8 ual , the takeover stock at the center of friday 's 190.58-point market plunge , to 222 7/8 on nearly 2.3 million shares .
said overall , `` is this a pleasant rally but be it very selective , '' arthur cashin jr. , a veteran painewebber inc. trader at the big board .
`` a little was concerned everyone about the general narrowness of the rally and failure of the otc market to get into plus territory .
be it just a strange feeling .
do n't think left the place whistling dixie anyone i '' .
gave at least for now , credence , the rally to the pre-trading declaration of big board chairman john j. phelan jr. that was friday 's market debacle `` an abnormal condition , and not a disaster '' .
but to traders , looked it like disaster on the 9:30 a.m. opening bell .
opened down 1.64 the dow jones industrial average shortly after 9:30 .
at 9:45 , opened down 2 3/4 to 117 procter & gamble -- one of the most important dow bellwethers of late -- .
dropped the dow to a quick 27-point loss , and to many traders looked it as if was headed stocks for yet another big tumble .
opened more stocks over the ensuing half hour , as groped to find buy orders from major brokerage firms to match the selling flood the 49 big board specialist firms in charge of keeping the market orderly .
to make matters worse , then , kicked in , hammering stocks into steeper losses computerized sell programs .
there was heavy stock-index arbitrage , as sold big baskets of stock traders and bought stock-index futures to profit from the price discrepancies between the two markets .
was this a hangover from friday , when had closed standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures at a sharp discount to stocks .
dashed any hopes that would hold off some of the big program trading firms until stabilized the market the onslaught of the program selling .
did n't they .
accelerated its slide , the dow losing 63.52 in the first 40 minutes of trading .
with program traders seemingly in charge , backed away buyers from the market and watched fall stocks .
at 10:15 then suddenly started to rebound , the dow and when shot upward it did so even faster than the early-morning fall it .
and this time , was it n't just the program traders who were responsible .
had pushed stocks all the selling to such cheap values that started buying heavily stocks big investment banks and major money management firms .
was the program traders in there , too , of course .
but according to one trader , `` did n't look as dominant on the upside as on the downside the programmers because there was also a lot of bargain-hunting by institutions -lcb- -rcb- '' .
said `` was to double our orders yesterday morning the first thing did we '' roland m. machold , director of the new jersey division of investment , which oversee $ 29 billion in investments , .
`` with the market down like this , 'll probably take another $ 50 million we and put it in the market '' .
caught traders ' eyes trading in walt disney co. particularly .
according to big board officials , had one of the biggest sell-order imbalances disney on friday ; was it one of the seven stocks that could n't finish trading that day .
opened late down 8 1/2 the stock at 114 1/2 , .
said but then shot upward 7 1/2 it as stepped in goldman , sachs & co. and bought , traders .
however , said `` would be surprised i if represented 4 % of the opening volume goldman '' disney specialist robert fagenson : .
around wall street , was relieved that could at least play the market they yesterday , in contrast to friday 's gridlock trading desks .
at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette inc. , said `` think was the opening constructive i head equity trader dudley eppel : .
was it orderly .
put together some orders we .
not like friday where just took apart the market they -lcb- -rcb- . ''
still , had n't yet crossed the market into positive territory , and was traders glum .
but in another dramatic burst , tacked the dow on 42 points in five minutes , and at 10:25 showed a gain of 5.74 the index .
on the big board floor and on trading desks , yelped their approval traders .
grinned `` tell you , act healthy this market i '' griffith peck , a trader in shearson lehman hutton inc. 's otc department : .
around him , seemed to get a burst of energy scores of traders ; broke out bottles of perrier water their boss to cool off them .
among big board specialists , was `` pull your offers '' the cry -- meaning that soon expected to get higher prices for their shares specialists .
said `` was it bedlam on the upside , '' one big board specialist .
but was making money not everybody .
was the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , heavy after was halted the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options friday .
had bullish positions many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract friday , and when came the shutdown was frozen they with huge losses .
over the weekend , told the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning clearing firms .
said `` was absolutely killed they , slaughtered , '' one chicago-based options trader .
said that did n't lead yesterday 's big rally the closely watched major market index , mimic the dow industrials , whose 20 stocks some traders .
said `` is that then needed a savior to go into the major market index , spend $ 2 million and get started the program rally we `` the difference between today and two years ago -- `` terrible tuesday , '' oct. 20 , 1987 -- '' james gallagher , a partner at specialist fowler & rosenau , , .
this time -lcb- -rcb- saw institutions coming the programs and backed away and backed away .
when was the market at a technical level to buy , then came in they with a vengeance '' .
however , according to one analyst , just before the turnaround was the timing of major market index futures buying similar to that of terrible tuesday .
said `` was pulling higher , the stock market futures '' donald selkin , head of stock-index futures research at prudential-bache securities inc .
although struggled the big board 's specialist firms through another highly volatile trading session , yesterday was their performance better than during friday 's late-afternoon chaos , according to traders and brokers who work with them .
was criticized specialists for their inability to maintain orderly markets during the friday plunge .
but yesterday , even with halts in such major blue-chip stocks as merck , `` expected the halts we ( ) and was it n't too bad , '' said donaldson 's mr. eppel , who had been critical of the specialists ' performance on friday .
according to a big board official , while opened late , many stocks there was subsequent trading halts in only three issues -- amr , merck and valero energy .
is merck one of the most important stocks in the major market index .
have been spared no sector of the market during the past two days ' gyrations .
from the dow industrials ' high on oct. 9 through friday 's plunge , yet have been turned in relatively good performances by real-estate , utilities , precious metals and life insurance stocks .
and yesterday , was the top performing industry group oil field equipment issues .
for example , jumped 3 1/4 halliburton to 38 , rose 2 1/2 schlumberger to 43 1/4 and rose 1 1/8 baker hughes to 22 .
because of the ual and amr tumbles , was airlines the weakest sector of the market yesterday .
was philip morris the big board 's most active issue , rising 2 1/4 to 43 1/4 on nearly eight million shares .
among other major issues , closed up 2 coca-cola co. at 66 3/4 on 1.7 million shares and rose 3 1/4 american telephone & telegraph to 43 on nearly 7.8 million shares .
finished up 1 , shares of international business machines , which reported earnings yesterday , at 103 , after slipping below 100 during friday 's session for the first time in five years .
rose shares of three brokerage firms after reported earnings they .
added 1 3/4 merrill lynch to 28 , rose 3/4 painewebber to 18 1/2 and rose 3/8 bear stearns to 14 1/4 .
climbed 4 federal national mortgage association , a recently hot stock , to 124 on nearly 1.6 million shares .
at a news conference after the close of trading yesterday , praised the performance of their computers and personnel the big board 's mr. phelan and other exchange officials .
said that was program trading strategies n't responsible for triggering friday 's decline despite a jump in the use of the computer-driven strategies in recent months mr. phelan .
said were some 24 million of the more than 100 million shares traded in the final 90 minutes of friday 's session , when was concentrated the plunge in stock prices , program-related , he .
make up 10 % of the exchange 's volume program trades on an average day , but said despite the increase friday , was it `` certainly not something would say precipitated the market decline , you '' mr. phelan .
expressed relief that rebounded the market yesterday mr. phelan .
said `` every time get this kind of reaction , we obviously , be going to make everybody nervous , including me , it '' he .
said that had conversations with wall street firms exchange officials throughout the weekend and that `` behaved very , very responsibly all the participants today '' he .
meanwhile , praised institutional investors in the otc market , who were heavy buyers of the nasdaq 's biggest technology issues yesterday amid a flood of selling by other investors peter dapuzzo , shearson 's head of retail equity trading , .
said `` ca n't be criticized the institutions for their behavior , '' mr. dapuzzo in an interview .
`` was it the opposite of what happened on oct. 19 .
used their judgment they .
instead , bought which kept the market orderly they on weakness and sold into the strength , .
maybe learned they from experience '' .
said was the performance of specialists during friday 's plunge admirable , because out of 1,640 big board common stocks traded during the day were closed only seven and were n't reopened before the close mr. phelan .
said `` did an excellent job , they '' mr. phelan of the specialists .
on friday had complained wall street traders about the trading suspensions .
contributed james a. white and sonja steptoe to this article .
joined its ideological soulmates jeremy rifkin and the christic institute west germany 's green party in the legal battle to ground the atlantis shuttle and its plutonium-powered galileo probe to jupiter .
wanted a washington federal appeals court to block long enough for to ask the world court `` to order a permanent cancellation of the $ 1.5 billion flight '' them today 's scheduled liftoff the anti-defense greens .
yesterday refused to comply , a three-judge appeals panel though went to deny that was this a `` frivolous '' case liberal judge pat wald out of her way .
of course was it .
should now sue nasa for fines against all three politico-plaintiffs , foreign and domestic , for bringing this mischievous case .
approved a permanent smoking ban on all domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on all flights of six hours or less to alaska and hawaii a house-senate conference .
would cover all but a small percentage of domestic air traffic , the restrictions and represent a major expansion of the current smoking ban on flights of two hours or less .
appear to be largely a face-saving concession for the traditionally powerful tobacco industry , which have found increasingly isolated itself in the face of public pressure in recent years the exemption allowed on longer flights to alaska and hawaii .
by a 6-4 margin , initially rejected a senate provision covering all domestic flights house negotiators last night .
but was soon agreed the six-hour compromise to in subsequent discussions .
as a practical matter , would be covered flights from the west coast to hawaii as is they under the time limit , but would exempt longer routes beginning , for example , in chicago or on the east coast the language .
within the senate , have had aggressive support from sen. frank lautenberg ( d. , n.j. ) , who have used his position as a senate appropriations subcommittee chairman to garner votes for the initiative the ban .
is attached the measure to the more than $ 26 billion fiscal 1990 transportation bill within mr. lautenberg 's jurisdiction , and is laced the final compromise with more than $ 205 million in road projects earmarked by members as well as funds sought by major airports , including denver .
from the outset , the tobacco industry has been uncertain as to to follow what strategy .
but retain support the industry in the house leadership through the influence of grower states , such as north carolina .
owe a political debt majority whip william gray to southern agriculture lawmakers for his rise in the house , and used his position in the conference the philadelphia democrat to salvage the exemption from a total ban .
although have attracted the most public interest , the smoking provision was the underlying bill the subject of behind-the-scenes lobbying because of its impact on air transportation and the more mundane , but politically important , projects of members .
in a stark lesson in the power of the appropriations committees , deliberately killed a handful of projects backed by lawmakers in florida , illinois and pennsylvania who had voted against the panel leadership on the house floor the house .
said `` can vote anybody as want they , '' rep. william lehman ( d. , fla. ) , head of the house conferees .
within the federal aviation administration , promise to increase spending for facilities and equipment by more than 20 % from last year , the final bill and would rise total operations to $ 3.84 billion -- a 12 % boost .
include $ 40 million for denver 's ambitious new airport , the facilities account and created shifting alliances between urban lawmakers representing established airports in philadelphia and michigan and the major carriers to denver , united and continental the competition for these funds .
leery of the costs -- and , say critics , competition -- have sought to gain leverage over the city of denver the airlines .
was texas air corp. , which own continental , and the air transport association prominent in the lobbying .
sought to impose conditions that would have delayed funds for the project until had agreed denver and the airlines to leases for 50 % of the gates the industry .
but was rejected this in favor of much looser language directing the transportation department to review the costs of the first phase , expected to cost about $ 2 billion .
though smaller in total dollars , agreed to preserve an estimated $ 30.6 million in controversial subsidies to carriers serving rural or isolated airports the conference .
is the sum more than double what had approved the house for the program , but would be cut the list of qualified airports by 22 under new distance requirements and limits on the level of subsidy .
previously cut six airports congress this year .
is to eliminate many of the most excessive cases where have been paying more than $ 200 the government for each passenger in subsidies the impact of the changes .
among rail and highway accounts , provide $ 615 million for amtrak , including $ 85 million for capital improvements the agreement .
and would be effectively frozen federal-formula grants for mass transit at $ 1.625 billion , or $ 20 million more than last fiscal year .
enjoying several blockbuster movie hits including `` batman , '' reported earnings for the first quarter ended aug. 31 of $ 5.8 million , or 50 cents a share , compared with a year-earlier loss los angeles-based guber-peters entertainment co. .
is seeking to free its top executives , peter guber and jon peters , from an exclusive agreement with time warner inc. 's warner communications inc. sony corp. , which has offered to acquire the movie-production company , so can run columbia pictures entertainment inc they .
two weeks ago agreed to acquire columbia for $ 3.4 billion , or $ 27 a share sony .
sued sony and guber-peters warner late last week ; have countersued charging warner with attempting to interfere in sony 's acquisition of the two companies sony and guber-peters , .
compared guber-peters 's net income in the latest quarter with a net loss of $ 6.9 million , or 62 cents a share , in the year-earlier period .
said rose 138 % , revenue to $ 10.9 million from $ 4.6 million , reflecting the success of its movies `` gorillas in the mist '' and `` rainman , '' as well as the box-office smash `` batman the company .
said boosted its stake in aristech chemical corp. it to 8.36 % of the the common shares outstanding a group including jon m. huntsman of salt lake city , .
as previously reported , proposed that acquire aristech banstar corp. , an affiliate of huntsman holdings , in a friendly transaction for $ 25-a-share in cash , or $ 817.5 million huntsman holdings corp. , owned by jon m. huntsman and other members of his family , .
in a filing with the securities and exchange commission , said control 2,720,675 aristech common shares , including 306,000 shares bought from aug. 21 to oct. 13 for $ 20 to $ 20.875 per share it the huntsman group .
declined comment officials at aristech , based in pittsburgh , .
congress has been critical of the bush administration for not sending enough aid to poland , so is getting ready to send its own version of a care package it .
last month , voted to send a delegation of congressional staffers to poland to assist its legislature , the sejm , in democratic procedures the senate .
call this effort `` the first gift of democracy . '' senator pete domenici
might do better to view it as a trojan horse the poles .
is it the vast shadow government of 15,000 congressional staffers helps create such legislative atrocities as the 1,376 page , 13-pound reconciliation bill that claimed to be the budget of the united states that .
maybe after explain their work the staffers to the poles , they 'd be willing to come back and do the same for the american people .
reported that widened its pretax loss for the first six months to 10.6 million irish punts ( $ 14.9 million ) from 5.8 million irish punts a year earlier waterford wedgwood plc , a financially troubled irish maker of fine crystal and wedgwood china , .
was the results for the half worse than market expectations , which suggested an interim loss of around 10 million irish punts .
in a sharply weaker london market yesterday , was waterford shares down 15 pence at 50 pence ( 79 cents ) .
reported a loss after taxation and minority interests of 14 million irish punts , compared with a loss of 9.3 million irish punts for the year-earlier period the company .
there was n't any extraordinary items .
rose 27 % sales for the total group to 168.1 million irish punts compared with 132.6 million irish punts a year ago .
have decided waterford against paying an interim dividend .
said is expected to enhance the company 's long-term prospects the appointment of a new management team and the signing of a comprehensive labor agreement waterford .
was reversed the sudden `` flight to quality '' that triggered friday 's explosive bond-market rally yesterday in a `` flight from quality '' rout .
reflected a rebound in the stock market and profit-taking the setback , in which plummeted treasury bond prices , .
`` was it a pretty wild day .
was closely tied our markets to the stock market , '' said joel kazis , manager of trading at smith barney , harris upham & co .
`` was no longer needed friday 's flight to quality once found its legs , the stock market '' said he .
had expected a further drop in stock prices some fixed-income investors after the nearly 200-point drop in the dow jones industrial average on friday .
but when began to climb instead , stocks declined prices of treasury bonds .
contributing was dispatches by several investment firms advising clients to boost their stock holdings and reduce the size of their cash or bond portfolios to the selling pressure .
among the firms was merrill lynch & co. and dean witter reynolds inc .
seemed to ignore evidence that eased slightly credit conditions the federal reserve by allowing the federal funds rate to drift as low as 8 1/2 % the bond market .
slid down from its perceived target level of about 9 % the closely watched rate on federal funds , or overnight loans between banks , to about 8 3/4 % last week , .
is considered an early signal of changes in fed policy the rate .
said did n't stir much enthusiasm yesterday 's modest easing because had been widely expected it traders .
in fact , contend that started the latest easing last week some economists .
note that was disappointed some investors because had expected a more aggressive easing they others .
ended about 1 3/4 points lower , or down about $ 17.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond , .
was the reversal even more evident among shorter-term treasury securities .
after plummeted as much as 0.70 percentage point treasury bill rates on friday , gave back three-fourths of that amount they yesterday .
for example , was quoted the bond-equivalent yield on three-month treasury bills , late yesterday at 7.72 % , compared with 7.16 % friday .
also fell investment-grade corporate bonds , mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds .
but rebounded to post small gains after a volatile trading session prices of junk bonds , which was battered friday in near standstill trading , .
opened as much as four points lower junk bonds but staged a modest comeback as firmed stock prices .
said was helped the high-yield market by active institutional buying some traders .
in particular , said they , began making early in the session a market in junk issues when hit severely depressed levels prices firms such as first boston corp. and drexel burnham lambert inc. .
`` think improved the sentiment for junk bonds , the willingness of securities companies to make markets for high-yield issues i '' said john lonski , an economist at moody 's investors service inc .
was u.s. treasury bonds higher in overnight trading in japan , which opened at about 7:30 p.m. edt .
for example rose one point the benchmark 30-year bond , in early japanese trading in reaction to a quick 600-point drop in the tokyo stock market .
but as rebounded japanese stocks , retreated treasurys and ended just modestly higher .
was fully staffed many u.s. trading operations , wanting to keep a watchful eye on japanese trading as an indication of where would begin u.s. trading , during the tokyo trading session .
`` was most of the action during the night session , '' said michael moore , trading manager at continental bank .
said was trading in tokyo `` very active '' but highly volatile jay goldinger , who often trades overnight for capital insight inc. , beverly hills , calif. , .
`` went down 3/4 point we in 10 minutes right before lunch , after lunch then went up 3/4 point we in 12 minutes , '' said he .
in tokyo , is halted trading during lunchtime .
turned out to be a bad bellwether for u.s. trading tokyo 's market .
when opened here , the market fell bonds prices as regained strength the stock market .
was the bond market 's focus on stock activity so strong yesterday that overshadowed today 's slate of economic data , which include the government 's report on august u.s. merchandise trade and september industrial production it .
is expected to have declined 0.2 % , industrial production according to a consensus of economists surveyed by dow jones capital markets report .
is expected to have widened to $ 9.1 billion from $ 7.58 billion in july the august trade deficit .
said one new york trader , is a widening of that magnitude , `` not a favorable number ... .
could do damage to us it '' .
meanwhile , is expected to weigh heavily on the market today when price a $ 2.3 billion offering of one-year , three-year , five-year and 10-year maturities the federal home loan bank agency supply .
tomorrow , will provide details of its first bond issue , which is expected to total between $ 4 billion and $ 6 billion and carry a maturity greater than 20 years the resolution funding corp. .
is resolution funding a division of resolution trust corp. , the new federal agency created to bail out the nation 's troubled thrifts .
and this week plan to price a $ 3 billion offering , its first public debt borrowing in 15 years the tennessee valley authority .
said `` there 's lots of supply , '' the new york trader .
`` have coming a couple or three tough weeks we '' .
tumbled prices of treasury bonds in moderate to active trading .
was quoted late the benchmark 30-year treasury bond at a price of 101 19/32 , compared with a closing price of 103 12/32 friday .
rose the yield on the benchmark issue to 7.97 % from 7.82 % .
was quoted late the latest 10-year notes at 100 3/32 for a yield of 7.97 % , compared with 101 9/32 to yield 7.84 % .
fell short-term interest rates yesterday at the government 's weekly treasury bill auction .
was the average discount rate on new three-month treasury bills 7.37 % , the lowest since the average of 7.36 % at the auction on oct. 17 , 1988 .
was the average discount rate 7.42 % on new six-month bills , the lowest since the average of 7.35 % at the auction on july 31 , 1989 .
is determined rates by the difference between the purchase price and face value .
thus , narrow the investor 's return higher bidding while widen it lower bidding .
is calculated the percentage rates on a 360-day year , while is based the coupon-equivalent yield on a 365-day year .
is dated both issues oct. 19 .
mature the 13-week bills jan. 18 , 1990 , and mature the 26-week bills april 19 , 1990 .
ended one to 1 1/2 point lower investment-grade corporate bonds .
there was no new issues .
surged foreign bonds as weakened the dollar against most major currencies .
among benchmark issues : -- ended up 1.17 point japan 's no. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 on brokers screens at 96.15 , .
was the yield 5.245 % .
-- ended up 0.91 point to yield 6.99 % west germany 's 6 3/4 % issue due june 1999 at 98.30 , .
-- ended 1 1/8 higher to yield 10.12 % , britain 's 11 3/4 % bond due 2003/2007 at 111 19/32 while rose 21/32 the 11 3/4 % notes due 1991 to 98 26/32 to yield 12.74 % .
gave up most of friday 's gains mortgage securities as ended 24/32 to 30/32 point lower active issues .
said dealers was morning activity hectic as dropped prices in response to gains in the stock market and losses in treasury securities , but slowed trading to moderate levels in the afternoon .
was quoted down 30/32 from friday government national mortgage association 9 % securities for november delivery late yesterday at 98 4/32 , ; was 9 1/2 % securities down 27/32 at 100 5/32 ; and was 10 % securities at 102 2/32 , off 24/32 .
was federal home loan mortgage corp. 9 % securities at 97 1/4 , down 3/4 .
on friday , gained as much as 1 5/32 mortgage issues .
late yesterday was yielding 9.39 % ginnie mae 9 % securities to a 12-year average life assumption , as narrowed 0.01 percentage point the spread above the treasury 10-year note to 1.42 .
said there was some busy dealings in freddie mac and federal national mortgage association securities because moved to gather collateral for new deals underwriters from last week 's heavy slate of real estate mortgage investment conduit issues traders .
offsetting was the remic-related purchases continued heavy sales by mortgage originators , which is producing increased amounts of fixed-rate mortgage-backed issues with lower rates .
there was no new-issue activity in the derivative market .
drove 1/4 to 3/4 point lower municipal bonds rebounding stocks and weaker treasury prices in late dealings .
left municipal dollar bonds close to where was they before prompted a capital markets rally the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average friday the session losses .
was trading hectic during the morning , with trying to gauge whether would continue equities friday 's free fall or stabilize after a brief spot of weakness players .
started the session flat to a touch higher tax-exempts on anticipation of further stock market erosion , but rapidly turned south bond prices as became more clear that was a repeat of the october 1987 crash n't at hand it .
dominated municipal trading professionals throughout the session .
said seemed to be hugging the sidelines until is wrung out a measure of volatility of the market retail investors traders .
was new jersey turnpike authority 's 7.20 % issue of 2018 off 3/4 at 98 1/2 bid , yielding up 0.07 percentage point from late friday 7.32 % , .
was florida board of education 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2023 5/8 point weaker at 99 1/2 bid .
was the 7 1/8 % issue of triborough bridge and tunnel authority of new york , due 2019 , off 5/8 at 98 1/8 bid .
and was fairfax county , va. , water authority 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2027 down 3/4 at 99 7/8 bid .
was up about 0.05 percentage point serial bond yields .
said be weighing `` strategic alternatives , '' for its business men 's assurance co. unit , it and is contacting possible buyers of the life and health insurance operation bma corp. , kansas city , mo. , .
said a bma spokesman have made health insurance `` a significant challenge , '' `` runaway medical costs '' and also have been pinched margins by changes in the mix of life-insurance products now demand consumers .
said represented about $ 288 million of the company 's $ 488 million in 1988 revenue , the business men 's assurance unit and was the unit 's operating income about $ 10 million , the spokesman .
have been authorized to contact possible buyers for the unit bma 's investment banker , alex . brown & sons inc. , .
said raised its stake in adt ltd. of bermuda it to 29.4 % from 28 % laidlaw transportation ltd. .
declined to disclose the price paid for the additional shares , which said were acquired `` over the last couple of weeks . '' he the toronto transportation and waste services concern a spokesman for laidlaw
said would n't increase its stake in adt laidlaw because of british takeover regulations that require a company acquiring more than 30 % to extend an offer to the rest of the company 's shareholders beyond 30 % `` without a great deal of thought '' the spokesman .
trade adt , a security services and auctions company , on london 's stock exchange .
is laidlaw 47%-controlled by canadian pacific ltd. , a montreal transportation , resources and industrial holding concern .
posted a 23 % unconsolidated surge in pretax profit to 61.41 billion yen ( $ 429 million ) from 50 billion yen ( $ 349.9 million ) nintendo co. , a japanese maker of video games , electronic information systems and playing cards , for the fiscal year ended aug. 31 .
surged 40 % sales to 250.17 billion yen from 178.61 billion .
rose 11 % net income to 29.62 billion yen from 26.68 billion .
without detailing specific product breakdowns , credited its bullish upsurge in sales -- including advanced computer games and television entertainment systems -- nintendo to surging `` leisure-oriented '' sales in foreign markets .
for instance , totaled up from 106.06 billion in the previous fiscal year 184.74 billion yen export sales for leisure items alone , in the 12 months , .
however , was domestic leisure sales , lower .
said retained merrill lynch capital markets it to sell its hertz equipment rental corp. unit hertz corp. of park ridge , n.j. , .
`` there is no pressing need to sell the unit , but is doing it we so can concentrate we on our core business , renting automobiles in the u.s. and abroad , '' said william slider , hertz 's executive vice president .
`` is only going to sell at the right price we '' .
had operating profit before depreciation of $ 90 million on revenue of $ 150 million in 1988 hertz equipment .
had annual revenue of close to $ 2 billion in 1988 , of which was contributed $ 1.7 billion by its hertz rent a car operations world-wide the closely held hertz corp. .
is hertz equipment a major supplier of rental equipment in the u.s. , france , spain and the u.k .
supply commercial and industrial equipment including earth-moving , aerial , compaction and electrical equipment , compressors , cranes , forklifts and trucks it .
reported a net loss of $ 2.4 million for the fiscal third quarter ended aug. 31 interspec inc. .
said resulted the loss from startup and introduction costs related to a new medical ultrasound equipment system it .
in the year-earlier quarter , reported net income of $ 955,000 , or 15 cents a share the company .
reported a nine-month net loss of $ 2.43 million compared with net income of $ 2.71 million , or 44 cents a share , for the nine-month period a year earlier the manufacturer of ultrasound diagnostic systems , based in ambler , pa. , .
in over-the-counter trading , fell 37.5 cents interspec to $ 4.25 .
told expect to report third-quarter net of about $ 34 million , or $ 1.50 a share , down from $ 38.4 million , or $ 1.70 a share , a year earlier , allegheny ludlum corp. institutional investors in new york richard p. simmons , chairman and chief executive officer , .
said fell sales for the pittsburgh-based producer of specialty steels and other materials to about $ 265 million in the third quarter from $ 320.5 million a year earlier , he .
said indicate profit for the nine months of $ 4.65 a share , `` almost equal to the full-year 1988 earnings of $ 108.6 million , or $ 4.81 a share '' the third-quarter estimate he .
said reflect continued improvements in productivity and operating margins the third-quarter results mr. simmons .
said will rise capital spending next year to about $ 45 million from about $ 35 million this year he .
said again extended the expiration date of its $ 7-a-share tender offer for international banknote co. it to nov. 15 u.s. banknote co. .
said u.s. banknote is it in negotiations to sell `` certain facilities , '' which did n't name it , to a third party , and need the extension it to try to reach a definitive agreement on the sale .
said believe if completed , apparently would satisfy antitrust issues raised by the u.s. justice department about u.s. banknote 's offer to buy international banknote the sale , it u.s. banknote .
said `` there can be no assurance '' would be concluded a sale agreement u.s. banknote .
also said would probably have to be extended further to complete financing arrangements the tender offer it .
said extended the expiration date of its commitment for senior secured financing citibank to nov. 15 u.s. banknote .
have been extended the offer , made june 1 , several times .
offered the $ 7 a share , or $ 126 million , closely held u.s. banknote for as many as 14.9 million shares , or 78.6 % , of international banknote 's shares outstanding .
said that as of oct. 13 , had been tendered 16.1 million shares , or about 84.3 % of the fully diluted shares outstanding , u.s. banknote .
said agreed to buy 50 % of regatta sport ltd. , a closely held apparel maker , with the assumption of $ 3 million of contingent debt it gitano group inc. .
under the terms of the contract , have the option to acquire the remaining 50 % of regatta , a maker of men 's and women 's clothes sold primarily in department stores , under certain conditions new york-based gitano .
is now held that 50 % by clifford parker , regatta 's president and chief executive officer , who will continue to manage regatta 's operations under gitano .
said in 1989 , will have sales regatta `` in excess of $ 10 million '' and will show a profit , mr. parker .
said will enhance its strategy to expand into department stores the regatta acquisition gitano , which make budget-priced apparel sold mainly through mass merchandisers like k mart and wal-mart , .
this fall , began manufacturing moderately priced clothes aimed at department stores under the gloria vanderbilt trademark , which recently acquired gitano gitano .
said will result the sale of preference units of its newly formed enron ngl partners l.p. master limited partnership subsidiary in an undetermined gain in the fourth quarter enron corp. , houston , .
in the year-ago quarter , had net income of $ 25.2 million , or 34 cents a share , on revenue of about $ 1.46 billion the natural gas concern .
included a $ 2.7 million charge related to the retirement of debt those results .
in a related move , said increased the number of the partnership 's units will offer it it to 6,930,000 from 5,500,000 enron .
include over-allotment provisions the old and revised numbers both .
said will be priced each unit in the $ 19-to-$21 range and will represent about 80 % of the partnership equity enron .
is expected to be close to $ 200 million net proceeds from the offering .
is goldman , sachs & co. , and drexel burnham lambert inc. lead underwriters .
said extended his unsolicited tender offer of $ 32 a share tender offer , or $ 154.3 million , for di giorgio corp. he to nov. 1 arthur m. goldberg .
said that as of the close of business yesterday , had been tendered 560,839 shares dig acquisition corp. , the new jersey investor 's acquisition vehicle , .
including the stake already held dig , hold a total of about 25 % of di giorgio 's shares dig on a fully diluted basis .
was to expire last night at midnight the offer , which also include common and preferred stock purchase rights , .
is the new expiration date the date on which is to expire dig 's financing commitments , which total about $ 240 million , .
is dig a unit of dig holding corp. , a unit of rose partners l.p .
is mr. goldberg the sole general partner in rose partners .
in august , rejected mr. goldberg 's offer di giorgio , a san francisco food products and building materials marketing and distribution company , as inadequate .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed down $ 1.75 di giorgio at $ 31.50 a share , .
after years of fading into the background , is coming back two-tone photography .
feature stark black-and-white photos of pitching jeans , shoes and liquor hollywood celebrities trendy magazine advertisements .
report a rush to black-and-white portrait orders portrait studios accustomed to shooting only in color .
and is crowded black-and-white photography classes with students .
on seventh avenue , have been advancing the monochrome look designers with clothing collections done entirely in black and white .
and is enjoying a comeback on videocassette tapes , spurred , in part , by the backlash against colorization of old films classic black-and-white movies .
`` is swinging back the pendulum to black and white , '' say richard demoulin , the general manager of eastman kodak co. 's professional photography division .
until two years ago , had been declining steadily sales of black-and-white film since the 1960s .
but last year , buoyed by increased use in advertising and other commercial applications , increased 5 % , sales and is expected to jump again at least that much this year they .
is scrambling to tap the resurging market , reviving some black-and-white product lines and developing new ones photographic companies .
now account at kodak , which largely ignored the market for years , black-and-white film sales for nearly 15 % of the company 's $ 3 billion in film and paper sales annually , up from 10 % three years ago .
recently began marketing t-max 3200 , one of the fastest and most sensitive monochrome films the rochester , n.y. , photographic giant .
aimed at commercial photographers , can be used the film in very low light without sacrificing quality , say donald franz of photofinishing newsletter .
also trying is to snare a portion of the $ 2 billion-a-year industry agfa corp. , a unit of bayer ag .
recently signed olympic gold medalist florence griffith-joyner to endorse a new line of black-and-white paper that 's geared to consumers and will compete directly with kodak 's papers agfa .
slated for market by the end of the year , `` could have been introduced a long time ago the paper but was n't there then , the market '' say an agfa spokesman .
is the biggest beneficiary of the black-and-white revival likely to be international paper co. 's ilford division , known in the industry for its premium products .
this year is outpacing growth in the overall market , sales of ilford 's four varieties of black-and-white film although wo n't say the company by exactly how much .
`` hope last the trend , we '' say laurie dicara , ilford 's marketing communications director .
seem eye-catching and exotic for baby boomers who grew up being photographed in color , black and white .
`` have an archival , almost nostalgic quality to it , it '' say owen b. butler , the chairman of the applied photography department at rochester institute of technology .
`` can shift you out of reality with black and white , '' add he .
such features have been especially attractive to professional photographers and marketing executives , who have been steadily increasing their use of black and white in advertising .
consider gap inc. , feature black-and-white shots of hollywood stars , artists and other well-known personalities modeling the retailer 's jeans and t-shirts whose latest ad campaign .
say did n't intentionally choose black and white to distinguish its ads from the color spreads of competitors gap richard crisman , the account manager for the campaign , .
`` wanted to highlight the individual , not the environment , we '' say he , `` and '' allow you to do better than color that black and white .
won a cleo award as this year 's best ad by a specialty retailer the campaign .
is making the switch even food products and automobiles , which have long depended on color , .
`` feel will convey a stronger statement , black and white companies '' say marc l. hauser , a chicago photographer who is working on a black-and-white print ad for stouffer food corp. 's lean cuisine .
include american express co. and epson america inc other companies that is currently using two-tone ads .
have also latched portrait studios onto the trend .
using black and white , `` can make look housewives like stars , we '' say john perrin .
doubled its business his on-broadway photography studio in portland , ore. , last year and , say he , is booked solid for the next five .
say spurned a color portrait she for black and white because `` be it more dramatic one customer , dayna brunsdon , .
show it i to my friends , and say wow they all ` ' .
is it n't ordinary like color . ''
still , is n't plunking black-and-white film most consumers into their cameras to take family snapshots .
is that develop anymore the film few drugstores one big obstacle .
typically , must be mailed it to a handful of processors and may take to be processed and returned a week or more .
cost a little less than color film , black-and-white film consumers and cost the same processing .
but for photofinishers , is developing costs for black-and-white film higher .
is starting to tackle that problem some companies .
for example , recently introduced a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs ilford , .
is also increasing intent on wooing customers , its sponsorship of black-and-white photography classes the company .
similarly , is sponsoring scores of photography contests at high schools and colleges , agfa offering free black-and-white film and paper as prizes .
and is distributing an instructional video kodak to processors on how to develop more efficiently its monochrome film .
is introducing related products other companies .
introduced a complete darkroom starter kit targeted at teen-agers who want to process their own black-and-white photographs charles beseler co. , a leading maker of photographic enlargers , last month .
was introduced the kit , which have a suggested retail price of $ 250 and has already become a bestseller , after noticed numerous requests from parents for children 's photography equipment retailers .
`` seem have waned computers as hobbies , it '' say ian brightman , beseler 's chairman and chief executive officer .
but believe is the resurgence of black and white only a fad some industry observers .
cite the emergence of still electronic photography , turning more newspapers to color on their pages and measurable improvements in the quality of color prints they .
say `` have n't made the same quantum leaps in technological development as color , black and white '' mr. butler of the rochester institute .
`` today is the color print far superior to prints of 10 years ago .
but when selected 15 of the greatest photos ever made popular photography , a leading magazine for photographers , for its latest issue celebrating photography 's 150th anniversary , were all black and white .
say `` be got a classic spirit it and carry over emotionally , '' alfred debat of professional photographers of america .
`` be that the appeal .
said led improvements in advertising and subscription revenue to a 21 % gain in third-quarter profit to $ 8.8 million , or 31 cents a share , from $ 7.2 million , or 25 cents a share mcclatchy newspapers inc. .
rose more than 7 % sales to $ 94.9 million from $ 88.3 million .
also attributed improved performance the sacramento , calif. , company to a lower effective tax rate and higher interest income .
for the nine months , had almost a 23 % increase in profit to $ 23.6 million , or 83 cents a share , from $ 19.2 million , or 68 cents a share the newspaper chain .
grew almost 7 % sales to $ 279.1 million from $ 261.3 million .
publish the sacramento ( calif . ) bee and tacoma ( wash . ) news tribune , and other papers in western states mcclatchy .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , closed down 25 cents the company at $ 25.25 a share , .
submitted an offer to buy gatoil suisse s.a agip s.p . a. and societe national elf aquitaine , the state oil companies of italy and france , respectively , .
was n't disclosed the price .
said that was examining the offer , submitted last friday , along with two other offers , also submitted last week the swiss oil concern a spokesman for gatoil .
was those two offers private and refused to identify the bidding companies the spokesman .
further said that is expected at least two more offers from other companies within two weeks the spokesman .
own an oil refinery in switzerland with a capacity of 70,000 barrels a day , gatoil suisse along with a network of gasoline retailing outlets .
while prompted new fears about the economy 's prospects , friday 's plunging stock market point a little-known indicator that have faithfully foreshadowed the economy 's ups and downs by exceptionally long lead times to a sustained rise in overall business activity .
reached a record high of 223.0 the barometer , developed here , by analysts at columbia university 's center for international business cycle research in august , the latest month available , and estimate that have moved even higher it since then the columbia researchers .
was up from 222.3 in july and 215.3 as recently as march the latest reading of 223.0 .
marked the fifth straight monthly gain for the indicator , which use the 1967 average as a base of 100 the august rise .
in contrast , while up in august , have fallen repeatedly the commerce department 's widely followed index of leading indicators , since reaching a high early this year .
have prompted some forecasters to anticipate the start of a new recession perhaps before year 's end its ragged behavior through much of 1989 .
but `` make a recession any time soon highly unlikely , the far stronger showing of the columbia index '' say geoffrey h. moore , the director of the columbia facility .
a leading authority on the business cycle , also is mr. moore a member of the business cycle dating group , the panel of private economists that decide for the government when begin expansions and recessions and end .
normally convene the group only when seem likely a change in the economy 's general course .
`` is scheduled no meeting because show no sign of going off the tracks , the expansion '' report mr. moore .
based largely on the recent strength in their index , called the long leading indicator , foresee uninterrupted economic growth the columbia analysts through the rest of this year and next year as well .
expect a 2.6 % rise in 1990 in the gross national product , they after adjustment for inflation .
underlying is this optimism the index 's longstanding ability to signal recessions or recoveries , as may be the case , by substantially greater periods than the commerce department 's index of leading indicators .
over the full post-world war ii era , on the average , have entered sustained declines the columbia index , 14 months before the onset of recessions and turned up eight months before recoveries .
is the comparable lead times for the commerce index , include the stock market , whose components far shorter -- 10 months before recessions and only three months before recoveries .
also have reconstructed how would have behaved the long leading index before the stock market crash in october that ushered in the great depression , had existed it , in 1929 , the columbia economists .
reached a peak the indicator in january 1929 and then fell steadily up to and through the crash .
`` was it an entirely different pattern from what 're seeing now , we '' say mr. moore .
in august , was the bond measure at its highest monthly average since early 1987 .
also rose it last friday , while sagged the stock market .
include a ratio of prices to unit labor costs in manufacturing industries , the m2 version of the money supply , adjusted for inflation , and the volume of new home-building permits other components of the long leading indicator .
notably absent from the columbia index is the stock market , which say `` is simply no longer such a good indicator of the economy 's long-range prospects , though still is it useful for anticipating some short-run twists and turns '' mr. moore .
as recently as 1975 , was rated the stock market -- as reflected in the standard & poor 's index of 500 common stocks -- by the national bureau of economic research as the best of the 12 leading indicators that then made up the commerce index .
was assigned a mark of 80 out of a possible 100 , it compared with scores ranging as low as 69 for the other components .
have lost some precursory power , the stock market analysts at the columbia center claim , because of the growing impact of international developments .
`` have become more sensitive to factors not directly tied to the domestic economy , stocks '' say citing the exchange rate for the dollar on currency markets , the foreign-trade balance and inflows of foreign capital mr. moore , .
also feel that have diminished the stock market 's relevancy to the economic outlook the rise of such computer-based practices as program trading he .
said agreed to acquire birkel g.m.b . h. , a west german pasta maker it bsn s.a. , a leading french food group , .
was n't disclosed the value of the acquisition .
is the move in line with bsn 's strategy of gradually building its share of the european pasta market through external growth .
will initially acquire a 15 % interest in birkel , a closely held concern bsn .
have an agreement giving the right to buy all the shares outstanding , it the french group and could be completed this within a few months , said a bsn spokeswoman .
said was submitted the takeover for approval by the west german cartel office , bsn .
is birkel west germany 's second-biggest producer of pasta , with sales of 250 million marks ( $ 133.4 million ) in 1988 .
have 750 workers it at three production units in southwest germany , and is that nation 's leading producer of pasta sauces .
strengthen bsn 's position in the european pasta market the acquisition .
currently rank second after barilla group of italy , is whose sales chiefly in the italian market the french group .
said reduced its rating on $ 281 million of senior and subordinated debt of this thrift holding company , it to c from ca , saying believe will recover only `` negligible principal '' bondholders it moody 's investors service inc. .
said confirmed american continental 's preferred stock rating it at c the agency .
is american continental 's thrift unit , los angeles-based lincoln savings & loan association , in receivership and have filed the parent company for protection from creditor lawsuits under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code .
downgraded its ratings on the subordinated debt of centrust moody 's investors service inc. to caa from b-3 .
also reduced the ratings for long-term deposits the rating agency to b-3 from ba-3 and for preferred stock to ca from caa .
said was affected about $ 85 million in securities the rating agency .
was prompted the downgrades , said moody 's , by the continuing turmoil in the junk bond market and the suspension of dividends on centrust 's preferred stock .
also said believed if completed , could , endanger the thrift 's funding and market position the proposed sale of 63 centrust branches to great western bank it moody 's .
avoided a repeat of black monday the stock market as recovered prices from an early slide , spurred by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
closed up 88.12 points , the dow jones industrials at 2657.38 , the fourth-biggest gain ever , after being down as much as 63.52 points in the morning .
erased about half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , the rally but is analysts cautious about the market 's outlook .
also rebounded the dollar , while plummeted bond prices and soared treasury bill rates .
also recovered somewhat , junk bonds though remained stalled trading .
also rose gold .
bounced back following a 1.8 % plunge on monday tokyo stock prices in early trading tuesday .
also moved higher the dollar in tokyo .
withdrew his $ 7.54 billion offer for american air , donald trump citing the `` recent change in market conditions '' .
slid $ 22.125 , amr to $ 76.50 .
also , tried to get financing for a lower bid , possibly $ 250 a share a ual group .
fell $ 56.875 , ual to $ 222.875 .
tumbled 30 % slightly more than expected ibm 's earnings in the third quarter , .
partly cited a stronger dollar and a delay in shipping a new high-end disk drive the computer giant .
is analysts downbeat about ibm 's outlook for the next few quarters .
plan to decrease 10.4 % car production in the fourth quarter , with coming virtually all the decline from the big three u.s. auto makers .
is output at japanese-owned and managed plants in the u.s. due to rise 42 % .
said wo n't give much leeway in coping with gramm-rudman spending cuts , which took effect yesterday he federal agencies budget director darman .
hope to prod congress to finish a deficit plan darman .
would be restricted the s&l bailout agency by a new bill in how raise capital it .
would create another possible obstacle to selling sick thrifts the ways and means plan .
was struck down a natural gas rule by a federal appeals court .
had prevented pipeline firms the regulation from passing part of $ 1 billion in costs along to customers .
agreed to decide whether may dismantle a merger that have won regulatory approval but been ruled anticompetitive in a private suit a federal court the supreme court .
slid 37 % merrill lynch 's profit in the third quarter .
posted a 7.5 % gain , bear stearns while had a decline due to a year-ago gain painewebber .
plan to return to the name manpower and take a big write-off blue arrow of britain .
may help solidify its dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market the firm the moves .
posted a $ 1.82 billion loss for the third quarter , j.p. morgan reflecting a big addition to loan-loss reserves .
more than doubled ncnb 's profit .
agreed to acquire pace membership warehouse for $ 322 million , expanding its presence in the growing wholesale-store business k mart .
is the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below a guide to general levels but do n't always represent actual transactions .
traded reserves among commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $ 1 million or more .
is the minimum unit $ 100,000 .
is these rate indications n't directly comparable ; vary widely lending practices by location .
said reached an agreement with alliant computer systems corp. to develop software standards for intel 's i860 microprocessor it intel corp. .
is the i860 , introduced earlier this year , intel 's entry in the crowded market for reduced instruction set computing , or risc , computers .
is intel , based in santa clara , calif. , the market leader for traditional microprocessors with its 8086 family that form the heart of ibm-compatible personal computers .
under the agreement , will invest $ 3 million intel to acquire a 4 % stake in alliant , a maker of minisupercomputers for scientists and engineers .
will license its parallel-computing technologies alliant , based in littleton , mass. , to intel , providing a way to let work simultaneously many i860 microprocessors in a single computer on a problem users .
said plan to use the microprocessor in future products it alliant .
declined to discuss its plans for upgrading its current product line it .
said acquired a cotton and gauze products division it from closely held sterile products corp. for $ 8.2 million omnicare inc. , which intends to expand its position in the medical and dental markets , .
said expect to add `` substantial sales volume '' the division and to make a positive contribution to our earnings in 1990 and beyond it omnicare .
in 1988 earned $ 3.1 million , or 32 cents a share , the cincinnati company on revenue of $ 148.5 million .
said operate the division under the trade name acco and supply the medical and dental markets omnicare .
said had sales of more than $ 14 million the business , based in st. louis , in the fiscal year ended march 31 , omnicare .
said have built up a 6.7 % stake in the company shv holdings n.v. of the netherlands burmah oil plc , a british independent oil and specialty chemicals marketing concern , .
said had previously owned `` a little under 5 % '' of burmah shv for about two years james alexander , a burmah spokesman , .
said had n't notified burmah the dutch company of its reason for increasing the stake , he .
have been pegged shv , which last year merged its north sea oil and gas operations with those of calor group plc , by speculators as a possible suitor for burmah oil in recent weeks .
also own 40 % of calor shv .
reported a 17 % rise in net income to # 43.5 million ( $ 68.3 million ) in the first half burmah , which own the castrol brand of lubricant oils , .
said signed a definitive agreement to sell its builders ' hardware group to closely held nalcor inc. of beverly hills , calif it j.p. industries inc. .
was n't disclosed terms , but said a j.p. industries spokesman is the amount will get j.p. industries for the group `` a little better than expected by the marketplace , and had been expecting $ 25 million to $ 30 million the marketplace '' .
consist the group of weslock corp. and jpi modern inc .
said complete a previously announced program to divest itself of its hardware and plumbing supplies operations the sale j.p. industries , which is based in ann arbor , mich. , .
is the company 's remaining business the manufacture and sale of engine and transmissions products for industrial and transportation applications .
citing a $ 3.1 million provision for doubtful accounts , posted a loss for its fourth quarter ended june 30 dallas-based national heritage inc. .
said a unit of troubled southmark corp. , sustained a net loss of $ 1.6 million , or nine cents a share , it compared with net income of $ 1.3 million , or eight cents a share , a year earlier the operator of nursing homes and retirement centers .
rose 13 % operating revenue to $ 22.2 million from $ 19.7 million in the year-earlier quarter .
said was created to reflect doubt about the collectability of receivables owed to national heritage by some of the real estate partnerships manage it the $ 3.1 million reserve the company .
also said was recognized primarily expenses incurred by the previous board and management in the recent contest for control in the first quarter ended sept. 30 the company .
fell 12.5 cents national heritage stock yesterday to close at $ 1.375 a share in new york stock exchange composite trading .
announced the creation of a european group to bring together its trading interests in the region united biscuits ( holdings ) plc , a british food producer , .
will comprise all of united biscuit 's manufacturing and marketing operations in the food sector apart from those based in the u.s. the new group .
said will have annual sales of more than # 1.5 billion ( $ 2.35 billion ) and trading profit of more than # 160 million ( $ 251 million ) the combined group , which will include businesses such as mcvities biscuits and terry 's confectionery , united biscuits .
`` will enable united biscuits to focus clearly upon opportunities for planned growth during the 1990s , the new structure '' said bob clarke , deputy chairman and group chief executive .
last month , agreed to sell its entire restaurant operations to grand metropolitan plc for # 180 million united biscuits .
now is standing trial an american journalist in namibia .
is this the place that over have been celebrating world opinion in the expectation that be going to hold an election it .
was writing that was the head of the commission charged with overseeing the election 's fairness , bryan o'linn , openly sympathetic to swapo the u.s. journalist 's `` crime '' .
shortly after that , had arrested scott stanley and confiscated his passport mr. o'linn .
is mr. stanley on trial over charges that violated a proclamation , issued by the south african administrator general earlier this year , which made a crime punishable by two years in prison for `` to insult it any person , disparate or belittle '' the election commission he .
do n't bode well the stanley affair for the future of democracy or freedom of anything in namibia when start running the government swapo .
to the extent have done anything wrong , mr. stanley may be that is he out of step with the consensus of world intellectuals that was the namibian guerrillas above all else the victims of suppression by neighboring south africa it .
have enjoyed favorable western media treatment swapo since ever declared it the `` sole , authentic representative '' of namibia 's people in the u.n. general assembly
last year , brokered a peace settlement the u.s. to remove cuba 's `` afrika korps '' from angola and hold `` free and fair '' elections that would end south africa 's control of namibia .
is set the elections for nov. 7 .
in july , visited namibia mr. stanley , editor of american press international , a washington d.c.-based conservative wire service , to report on the u.n.-monitored election campaign .
interviewed mr. o'linn , head of a commission charged with investigating electoral intimidation , he and reported that was mr. o'linn openly sympathetic to swapo and indeed had defended its leaders in court .
after was published mr. stanley 's article in two namibian newspapers , had brought criminal charges mr. o'linn against their editors , publisher and lawyer .
was arrested along with the others mr. stanley and charged when returned he to namibia this month .
have protested mr. stanley 's detention both the state department and the lawyers committee for freedom of the press .
is mr. stanley 's arrest the latest in a series of incidents that threaten to derail namibia 's elections .
is intimidating voters both south african and swapo extremists .
is the u.s. in the habit of arranging peace settlements and then washing its hands over the tragic results .
now have the chance to redress that record in namibia it .
should insist that be released mr. stanley and his fellow defendants and that make certain that investigate election complaints from all sides mr. o'linn's commission the united nation 's monitors state and the human-rights community .
generally reflected the stability of the stock market commodity futures prices following its plunge friday .
yesterday , at first created nervousness the stock market 's influence .
later , however , became more of an undercurrent than a dominating force it as reacted more individual markets to their own factors .
continued its inverse lockstep with the dollar , gold , the traditional haven in times of financial crisis , rising early in the day as fell the currency , and then giving up some of its gains as recovered the dollar .
reacted sharply copper and crude oil to the concern that yesterday could have a potentially devastating effect on the economy a crash .
fell copper and showed little rebound through the day as appeared to be solved one of the major supply problems that had been supporting prices .
declined early , crude oil but as retained early gains , the stock market too , became stronger , ending with a small net loss it , .
was trading in cotton and sugar nervous and showed small declines .
in chicago , rose slightly grain and soybean prices .
however , dropped livestock and meat prices , on concern that would cut consumption of beef and pork a financial crisis .
in commodity markets yesterday : precious metals : was futures prices moderately higher as gave up some of its early gains gold and behaved independently , first falling and then later rising platinum .
performed quietly silver .
rose $ 4 the spot october gold price to $ 367.30 an ounce .
settled the more active december delivery gold with a gain of $ 3.90 an ounce at $ 371.20 , after trading as high as $ 374 .
was december silver up 2.3 cents an ounce at $ 5.163 .
behaved easing early on concern over a possible weaker economy , but recovering later , as strengthened the stock market platinum more like an industrial metal , .
was gold nowhere the spectacular performer was it two years ago on black monday .
for one thing , last friday , closed precious metals markets before went the stock market into its late-in-the-day nose dive , so could n't react it to it .
back on friday , oct. 16 , l987 , declined the stock market during the day , and surged gold prices as fell the stock market .
that day rose as much as $ 8.70 the october 1987 contract to as high as $ 471.60 , and rose as much as $ 9.60 the more deferred positions , due to mature as late as march 1989 , .
on black monday , oct. 19 , 1987 , tacked on further gains , the october contract rising to as high as $ 491.50 for a gain of almost $ 20 on top of the friday advances , before giving up almost $ 10 of that at the close .
was yesterday 's october gain of $ 4 miniscule compared with that .
said already had some good price-supporting technical factors that would have caused prices to rise , with or without the stock market the gold market one analyst , peter cardillo of josephthal & co. , new york , .
`` was cause the rise to take earlier than would have happened it , place what did the stock market '' said mr. cardillo .
said there be a good chance that will retain its gains gold and rise further , he .
expect a drop in interest rates , which would help gold by keeping the dollar from rising he .
according to mr. cardillo , finally , should be reflected the impact of the strong dollar in reduced exports in the august merchandise trade deficit , when is released the figures today .
said be would damaging this to the dollar and supportive for gold , he .
worried that friday 's 190-point stock market plunge might be a harbinger of things to come for the economy , called a halt to the recent string of increases in crude oil futures prices petroleum futures traders .
closed down 30 cents the u.s. benchmark crude , west texas intermediate , at $ 20.59 a barrel for november delivery , .
said was crude due for a correction anyhow , following several days of significant gains some analysts .
but agreed that is what dampened spirits in the petroleum pits yesterday friday 's stock market drop most market observers .
until yesterday , had been headed up futures prices on expectations that will continue to be strong world oil demand .
increased its production ceiling for the fourth quarter the organization of petroleum exporting countries based on projections of robust demand .
so send as well shivers any bearish indicator , such as friday 's precipitous drop in the stock market , through the oil markets .
after reacting early in the trading day to friday 's plummet , indeed , firmed up again futures prices as took note traders of the stock market 's partial recovery yesterday .
fell futures prices and showed little rebound as appeared to be solved one major labor problem that had been underpinning prices .
declined 3.05 cents a pound the december contract to $ 1.2745 .
was prices down from the outset of trading on concern that might create a weakened economy and a consequent reduction in copper use a drop in the stock market .
but provided little help for copper the recovery in the stock market as spread that was about over , a three-month strike at the highland valley mine in british columbia word according to an analyst .
is highland valley a large canadian producer and principal supplier to japan , which recently began seeking elsewhere copper as shrank its inventories .
last week was reported that had overcome the major hurdle , the contracting out of work by the company company and union negotiations it .
said the analyst , now , remain to be cleaned up only minor points .
said `` for all intents and purposes , appear to have been achieved , an agreement '' he .
rose copper inventories in new york 's commodity exchange warehouses yesterday by 516 tons , to 10,004 tons .
last week declined 13,575 tons , london metal exchange copper inventories to 89,300 tons .
was about as expected , the lme stocks decline but was n't the comex gain .
said however , was brushed aside this by concern over the stock market , the analyst .
at one point in futures trading , as firmed the stock market , rose the december contract to as high as $ 1.2965 , but was it n't able to sustain the gain .
`` was simply overbought it , '' said he , and helped depress prices selling by funds that computer is guided .
eased futures prices , more in reaction to hurricane jerry than to any influence of the stock market .
ended the december contract with a loss of 0.22 cent a pound , at 74.48 cents .
said caused prices to decline yesterday , technical considerations following the hurricane , which was a factor in the market friday , ernest simon , cotton specialist for prudential-bache securities , new york .
rose sharply prices friday as approached the storm texas and louisiana , which is part of the mississippi delta cotton-growing area .
said after absorbing the potential effect of the hurricane , however , began to slip late friday , prices mr. simon .
said continued that selling yesterday and kept prices under pressure , he .
said is being predicted colder weather for the high plains of texas and the northern states of the delta during the coming weekend , mr. simon .
added have n't yet captured traders ' attention , that he .
declined futures prices .
was the march contract off 0.32 cent a pound at 13.97 cents .
at one point in early trading rose the march price to as high as 14.22 cents when recovered the stock market , but then fell back the price .
said one analyst , was that did n't make any purchases india , which had been expected to buy around 200,000 tons of sugar in the world market , a price-depressing factor , .
said recently bought 200,000 tons india and was expected to buy more , the analyst .
thought that may have pulled back india because of the concern over the stock market another analyst .
said `` may have felt that if there was a severe drop in the stock market and affected sugar , it could buy it at lower prices , india '' judith ganes , analyst for shearson lehman hutton , new york .
at any rate , added she , `` need the sugar , india so will be in sooner or later to buy it it '' .
dropped sharply the prices of cattle and hog futures contracts because speculated that friday will linger long enough to prompt them to rein their spending at the supermarket , in which would hurt demand for beef and pork the stock market plunge in the minds of u.s. consumers traders .
dropped its maximum permissible daily limit of 1.5 cents a pound the price of the hog contract for october delivery .
rose slightly the prices of most grain futures contracts yesterday out of relief that was showing signs of recovering the stock market .
earlier in the session , set new lows the prices of several soybean contracts .
began a broad rally when began buying futures contracts , apparently to take advantage of the price dip several major processors .
said would report increased earnings per share contrary to reported analysts ' comments that would be down the publishing company 's earnings it for the third quarter , knight-ridder inc. .
said believed was caused the confusion when told two weeks ago new york analysts that knight-ridder 's earnings per share for the first nine months of 1989 would `` be behind a little bit '' from like period of james batten , knight-ridder 's chairman and chief executive , he a company spokesman
said is expected to be up the third-quarter earnings plan that to report oct. 24 the company the knight-ridder spokesman .
said was he `` comfortable '' with revised analysts ' projections that would report earnings of between 62 cents and 64 cents a share , the company compared with the 53 cents a share reported it for the 1988 third quarter the spokesman .
said agreed it with estimates that net income for all of 1989 would be around $ 2.86 a share , compared with $ 2.59 a share a year earlier knight-ridder .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed down 37.5 cents knight-ridder at $ 51.75 , .
said extended its $ 45-a-share offer for dunkin ' donuts inc. it to nov. 1 from yesterday dd acquisition corp. .
have an indicated value of $ 268 million the offer .
is dd acquisition a partnership of unicorp canada corp. 's kingsbridge capital group unit and cara operations ltd .
as previously reported , under the terms of a confidentiality agreement with dunkin ' donuts , agreed to keep their offer open until nov. 1 , and not to acquire any additional shares except through a tender offer expiring on that date the partners .
said that already own 15 % of the common shares of the doughnut shop chain it and that as of the close of business friday had been tendered an additional 11 % to its offer dd acquisition .
is based dunkin ' donuts in randolph , mass .
is based cara operations , a food services concern , and unicorp , a holding company with interests in oil and natural gas and financial services , in toronto .
posted a 16 % increase of third-quarter earnings golden west financial corp. , riding above the turbulence that have troubled most of the thrift industry , to $ 41.8 millon , or 66 cents a share .
earned $ 36 million , or 57 cents a share , the company in the year-ago quarter .
credited the high number of loans added to the company 's portfolio over the last 12 months herbert m. sandler , chairman and chief executive officer of the oakland , calif. , savings-and-loan holding company , for broadening its earning asset base and improving profit performance .
however , noted that depressed new loan originations slackening demand for new mortgages to $ 1 billion , 30 % below the same period last year the executive .
in savings activity , said have enjoyed a steady increase consumer deposits throughout 1989 , and topped $ 11 billion at quarter 's end for the first time in the company 's history mr. sandler .
amounted deposit growth to $ 393 million , more than double the year-ago figure .
said have developed a process to recover environmentally harmful chlorofluorocarbons , or cfcs , that previously entered the atmosphere during in-home repair of refrigerators and freezers it whirlpool corp. , benton harbor , mich. , .
said is the process , which involve the use of a multilayer plastic bag during repairs to capture the gaseous substance and transport it to a recycling center , already in use at a number of its service centers , and will be available to all authorized repair centers by spring the maker of home appliances .
vented the cfcs earlier repairs out of the home through a hose directly into the atmosphere .
is widely used cfcs as solvents , coolants and fire suppressants .
but have been linked their use to a potentially dangerous depletion of the earth 's ozone layer , and is seeking to curtail use , or at least emission , of the substance a number of companies .
said `` see this process we as a small but important step toward eventual elimination of cfc use in appliance manufacture whirpool , .
said discovered northeast of its previously discovered intan field in the southeast sumatra area of indonesia a new oil field it maxus energy corp. , dallas , .
said did n't run a production test it on the three discovery wells drilled it in the field , which is about 1.6 miles from the intan field , because is the wells similar to others drilled at its intan and widuri fields maxus .
however , said believe is the reserves in the field about 10 million barrels of oil it maxus .
have estimated reserves of 50 million barrels the intan field and have estimated reserves of 225 million barrels the widuri field .
is maxus , an independent oil and gas concern , the operator and own a 56 % interest in the new field , called northeast intan .
is owned other interests by bp petroleum development ( ses ) ltd. , c. itoh energy co. ltd. , deminex sumatra oel g.m.b . h. , hispanoil ( sumatra ) production ltd. , hudbay oil ( indonesia ) ltd. , inpex sumatra co. ltd. , lasmo sumatra ltd. , sunda shell , tcr sumat a.g. and warrior oil co .
is held the production-sharing contract area with pertamina , the indonesian state oil company .
said is restating its results it to reduce its reported net income for the first nine months of its fiscal year after discovering took tax credits that already had been taken last year it environmental systems co. .
said will reduce its net for the nine months ended july 31 the restatement to $ 2.5 million , or 17 cents a share , from $ 3.7 million , or 26 cents a share the little rock , ark. , hazardous-waste services company .
previously reported net of $ 2.3 million , or 15 cents a share the company .
said that for financial reporting purposes last year took tax credits that will be recognized for tax purposes this year it the company .
but because of confusion , took again those credits it in reporting its results through the first nine months .
said increase the company 's effective tax rate the change to about 35 % from 20 % jack w. forrest , environmental systems president and chief executive officer , .
said signed a definitive merger agreement with isi systems inc. under which will acquire isi memotec for $ 20 ( u.s. . ) a share , or about $ 130 million , in cash and securities it memotec data inc. .
in american stock exchange composite trading , closed up $ 3.125 isi at $ 18.625 .
in montreal exchange trading , closed unchanged memotec at 10.625 canadian dollars ( us$ 9.05 ) .
said under the agreement , will merge isi , a braintree , mass. , provider of computer software and services to the insurance industry , with a u.s. unit of memotec created for that purpose memotec .
is memotec a montreal-based maker of telecommunications products and provider of telecommunications and computer services .
said call the agreement for to make a $ 20-a-share cash tender offer for all shares outstanding of isi it memotec .
but said agreed to sell his 60 % stake in isi to memotec upon completion of the tender offer for a combination of cash , memotec stock and debentures charles johnston , isi chairman and president , it .
said is conditioned the tender offer on , among other things , holders tendering at least 15 % of the shares outstanding , other than the shares held by mr. johnston memotec .
said have instructed management its board to accept inquiries from any others interested in making a bid isi .
said can withdraw it from the merger agreement with memotec if surface a better bid isi .
said have resumed the purchase of its common stock it under a program approved by its directors in 1987 cms energy corp. , jackson , mich. , .
at the time of the original announcement , said authorized the purchase of as many as five million of its shares its board cms .
said have been purchased 2.6 million shares since then a spokesman .
said will buy additional shares it `` from time to time '' in the open market or in private transactions at prevailing market prices the company .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , closed down 62.5 cents , from the closing price of $ 37.375 a share on thursday , before friday 's plunge cms energy at $ 34.375 a share , .
currently have about 82.1 million shares outstanding the utility company .
will act morgan stanley & co. as the exclusive broker for the repurchase .
said agreed to purchase the electro-optics technology division of perkin-elmer corp it hughes aircraft co. , a unit of general motors corp. , .
was n't disclosed terms of the agreement .
but for the fiscal year ended july 31 , 1988 , the most recent period for which was broken out , results accounted the perkin-elmer unit for more than half the $ 145 million in sales recorded by the company 's government systems sector .
said is the sale of the danbury , conn. , unit consistent with its restructuring strategy announced in april perkin-elmer , which is based in norwalk , conn. , .
in addition to making electro-optical systems , also make laser warning receivers the unit .
is used to warn pilots that have been focused a laser weapon on them these aboard military helicopters .
said complement efforts by its electro-optical and data systems group , which make infrared sensors , military lasers and night vision equipment the perkinelmer unit 's work hughes of los angeles .
said expect the sale to close by year end it hughes .
ratified a new regional contract and all but one of the local agreements with bell atlantic corp the communications workers of america .
rejected the tentative agreement cwa 's new jersey commercial local , which represent about 2,500 service representatives and marketing employees , .
said was working together to resolve differences they both the union and the regional telephone company .
cover 41,000 bell atlantic employees the new three-year contracts , which replace ones that expired aug. 5 , .
follow a 23-day strike against the philadelphia-based company the ratification .
meanwhile , remain cwa and international brotherhood of electrical workers members on strike against nynex corp. , the new york-based regional phone company .
last week agreed the unions and the company to mediation .
represent 40,000 nynex workers the cwa and represent 20,000 workers the ibew .
for the moment , at least , have replaced anxiety euphoria on wall street .
jumped sharply to close at 2657.38 , did n't sweep the world 's markets , panic the dow jones industrial average yesterday and seemed to accept friday 's dizzying 190-point plunge as a sharp correction , not a calamity investors large and small .
among those sighing with relief was john h. gutfreund , chairman of salomon brothers , who took to monitor yesterday 's events to the firm 's trading floor .
as gained strength the rally at 3:15 p.m. , smiled broadly , he brandished his unlit cigar and slapped stanley shopkorn , his top stock trader , on the back .
at first , seemed it as if might repeat itself history .
as opened trading yesterday morning on the big board , could n't open stocks of many of the nation 's biggest companies for trading because was overwhelming buyers a wave of sell orders .
by 10:10 , was off 63.52 points , the dow industrials and still had n't opened the stock of ual corp. , had kicked off friday 's plunge , whose troubles .
but then , as quickly as had fallen the dow , began to turn around it .
ended it with a gain of 88.12 points .
by the market 's close , totaled more than 416 million , the fourth highest on record volume on the new york exchange .
handled the huge volume the big board without any obvious strain , in sharp contrast to black monday of 1987 .
but was largely confined the rally to the blue-chip stocks , which had been hard hit during friday 's selling frenzy .
overall , lost money more big board stocks than gained .
and was further hurt many arbitragers , already reeling from friday 's collapse of the ual deal , yesterday when collapsed a proposed takeover of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines , .
indeed , plunged 102.06 points , the dow jones transportation average its second-worst drop in history .
world-wide , was trading generally manageable .
was hardest hit the frankfurt stock exchange of the major markets , with falling 12.8 % blue chips there .
in london , left the market 's major index off 3.2 % , a midday rally and fell only 1.8 % tokyo 's leading stock index in surprisingly lackluster trading .
was hit harder than tokyo 's , other , more thinly traded asian markets but there was no free-fall declines .
say learned valuable lessons they since the 1987 crash investors big and small : in this age of computerized trading , must be expected huge corrections or runups in a few hours ' time .
what 's more , is such short-term cataclysms survivable and are no cause for panic selling .
say `` there was less panic than in 1987 : we had been through it once '' stephen boesel , a major money manager for t. rowe price in baltimore , , .
in somerset , wis. , agree adrian sween , who own a supplier of nursing-home equipment and is n't active in the stock market , .
`` look i at it as a ho-hum matter , '' say he .
played a part many other factors in yesterday 's comeback .
signaled its willingness to provide liquidity the federal reserve ; inched downward early in the day the interest rate on its loans to major banks .
began off by relatively modest amounts foreign stock markets , which kicked off black monday with a huge selling spree , the day .
after falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen , bounced back strongly thus easing fears that would unload u.s. stocks foreigners the dollar , to 141.8 , .
and also helped calm investors the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that was a crash n't in store .
for example , came ready to buy some of the blue chips felt had been sharply undervalued on friday they many major institutions , into work yesterday .
amid all the backslapping and signs of relief over yesterday 's events , still , cautioned that there is nothing present in the current market system to prevent another dizzying drop such as friday 's some market professionals .
`` there is too much complacency , '' say money manager barry schrager .
computers have increasingly connected securities markets world-wide , so that is often passed a buying or selling wave in one market around the globe .
so nervously eyed yesterday 's opening in tokyo , where got off the nikkei average of 225 blue-chip stocks to a rocky start investors everywhere .
plunged some 600 points , or 1.7 % , the average in the first 20 minutes of trading .
but had no conviction , the selling wave and first surged upward the market by 200 points , then drifted lower , closing down 647 .
in merrill lynch & co. 's tokyo trading room , sat quietly , some 40 traders and assistants with few orders to process .
say `` all is staying clients '' out of the market , one merrill trader .
proved little comfort to markets opening up in europe the relative calm in tokyo .
was delayed frankfurt 's opening a half hour because of a crush of sell orders .
`` was the beginning chaotic , '' say nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank
in london , also was the view from the trading floor of an american securities firm , jefferies & co. , troubling .
a computer screen displaying 100 blue-chip stocks colors each one red when is falling its price .
was the screen a sea of red .
`` see concern , i but do n't see panic , i '' say j. francis palamara , a new yorker who run the 15-trader office .
turned up sending an encouraging message to wall street london 's blue-chip stock index just before 8 a.m . new york time , .
when opened trading in new york at 9:30 a.m. edt , fell sharply stocks -- as expected .
had opened futures markets in chicago at a level suggesting would fall the dow by about 60 points .
with piled up sell orders from friday , could n't open about half the stocks in the dow on time .
by 9:45 , had dropped 27 points the industrial average .
by 10 a.m. , was down 49 it .
ten minutes later , hit down 63.52 points , another 2.5 % bottom the dow - .
but shortly before then , say sensed a turn they some of wall street 's sharpest traders , .
`` was was off , treasury bonds the first thing that caught my eye that was encouraging '' say austin george , head of stock trading at t. rowe price .
`` meant that was n't running pell-mell people to the safety of bonds it '' .
shortly after 10 a.m. , exploded upward the major market index , a chicago board of trade futures contract of 20 stocks designed to mimic the djia , .
was buoyed stock traders -- because had also started the recovery in stocks an upturn in the mmi on the tuesday following black monday .
`` have gone better , the mmi '' shouted a trader in the london office of shearson lehman hutton .
went wild shearson 's london trading room .
shouted out as posted an ever-narrowing loss on wall street their reuters , quotron and telerate screens traders .
then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded wall street to a gain on the day .
`` rally , rally , rally , '' shouted shearson 's andy rosen .
`` is this panic buying . ''
led the rally major blue-chip stocks like philip morris , general motors and proctor & gamble .
was said to be heavy buyers japanese .
reportedly loaded up german and dutch investors on kellogg co .
say traders , then , kicked triggering gains in , among other issues , alcan aluminium and mcdonald 's corporations with share buy-back programs into high gear , .
opened late down 8.5 walt disney co. , which had one of the biggest sell-order imbalances on friday and was one of seven stocks that halted trading and never reopened that day , yesterday at 114.5 , .
said but then suddenly burst upward 7.5 it as stepped in goldman , sachs & co. and bought almost every share offer , traders .
by 10:25 , had turned up prompting cheers on trading desks and exchange floors the dow for the day , .
among big board specialists , was `` pull your offers '' meaning that soon expected to get higher prices for their shares specialists the cry -- .
`` was it bedlam on the upside , '' said one big board specialist .
spurred buying from wall street 's `` black boxes , '' computer programs designed to trigger large stock purchases during bullish periods this technical strength .
typical , perhaps , was batterymarch 's dean lebaron .
say `` turned on , the trading system we and did was programmed whatever to do it it '' . mr. lebaron , who manages $ 10 billion , ,
asked what stocks bought the computer , say `` do n't know i '' the money manager , .
was making money not everybody .
was the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , heavy after was halted the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options friday .
had bullish positions many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract friday , and when came the shutdown was frozen they with huge losses .
over the weekend , told the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning clearing firms .
`` was absolutely killed they , slaughtered , '' said one chicago-based options trader .
meanwhile , came a test of the stock market 's rally at about 2 p.m. , with the dow at 2600 , up 31 points on the day .
say had explained the dow 's strength bargain hunting up to that point and that was anticipating a drop in the dow many market professionals charles clough , a strategist at merrill lynch , .
moreover , might have been expected to rattle traders the announcement that was withdrawing his offer for amr corp. real estate magnate and sometime raider donald trump .
instead , only paused the rally for about 25 minutes and then steamed forward as resumed buying institutions .
closed the market minutes after reaching its high for the day of
across the country , took yesterday 's events many people in stride , while remaining generally uneasy about the stock market in general .
say james norman , the mayor of ava , mo. : `` do n't invest i in stocks .
much prefer money can put my hands i on i '' .
while found mayor norman monday reassuring the market 's performance , say he , remain uneasy he .
`` have saying one thing half the experts and half the other about the course of the economy we '' .
say `` if come anything good out of this , might be that put some of these lbos it on the skids it '' . ralph holzfaster , a farmer and farm-supply store operator in ogallala , neb. , of the last few days events ,
say `` 're you on a roller coaster , and may last that gordon fines , a money manager at ids financial services in minneapolis , .
is the public still cautious .
said signed a definitive merger agreement for to acquire the 90.6 % of skipper 's inc. do n't own it a national pizza corp. unit for $ 11.50 a share , or about $ 28.1 million it skipper 's inc. , bellevue , wash. , .
plan to begin a tender offer for skipper 's on friday , conditioned on at least two-thirds of skipper 's shares being tendered np acquisition co. , a national pizza unit , .
said will be financed the transaction under its revolving credit agreement pittsburg , kan.-based national pizza .
in national over-the-counter trading , rose 50 cents skipper 's shares to $ 11 .
said will help finance remodeling and future growth the merger skipper 's .
previously turned down a $ 10-a-share proposal from national pizza skipper 's and questioned whether would violate national pizza 's franchise agreements the purchase pizza hut inc. .
said settled its dispute with pizza hut , it allowing it to make the purchase national pizza .
said also , began to turn around , permitting a higher offer , skipper 's results national pizza .
for the 12 weeks ended sept. 3 , had net income of $ 361,000 , or 13 cents a share , skipper 's compared with a net loss a year earlier .
was revenue $ 19.9 million .
rallied east germans as reportedly sought honecker 's ouster officials .
in what was considered the largest protest in the communist state 's 40-year history , marched to press demands for democratic freedoms , at least 120,000 demonstrators through the southern city of leipzig said opposition activists .
did n't intervene police .
as renounced their citizenship , the first of more than 1,300 east germans trying to flee to the west through poland meanwhile , reported that demanded the dismissal of hard-line leader honecker regional communist officials a west german newspaper .
in a foreign policy speech , called saying was it the `` legitimate right '' of the german people secretary of state baker , for the reunification of germany , .
blamed the soviet union 's press gorbachev for contributing to the nation 's mounting problems .
at a meeting friday , complained the kremlin leader about recent articles that raised the possiblity of civil unrest , and accused the media of fueling panic buying of goods by publishing stories about impending shortages .
approved a permanent smoking ban on domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on flights of less than six hours to alaska and hawaii house-senate conferees .
would cover all but a small percentage of flights , the curbs and represent an expansion of the current ban on flights of less than two hours .
was sentenced e. robert wallach by a u.s. judge in new york to six years in prison and fined $ 250,000 for his racketeering conviction in the wedtech scandal .
was found guilty wallach , an associate of ex-attorney general meese , in august of taking $ 425,000 in illegal payoffs from the now-defunct defense contractor .
resumed the countdown for today 's launch of the space shuttle atlantis , nasa and dismissed a lawsuit by anti-nuclear groups to delay the flight because was aboard the plutonium-powered galileo space probe a federal appeals court in washington .
said did n't expect weather or protesters to block the liftoff it the space agency .
said is preparing to extend a ban on federal financing of research using fetal tissue , the bush administration government sources .
was imposed a temporary prohibition in march 1988 .
while is opposed anti-abortion groups to such research , have said transplanting such tissue could be effective in treating diabetes scientists .
endorsed a ban on world ivory trade delegates from 91 nations in an attempt to rescue the endangered elephant from extinction .
however , said would continue selling the valuable tusks they five african nations , .
held reconciliation talks mubarak with gadhafi at the egyptian resort of mersa metruh .
was it the libyan leader 's first trip to egypt in 16 years .
announced a reduction in formalities for travel , they but did n't show any real signs of resuming full diplomatic ties .
said would visit libya he today to resume the talks the egyptian president .
reached a tentative agreement to allow visits between families on the divided korean peninsula seoul and pyongyang .
remained however , differences between the north and south korean governments , over conditions for the exchanges .
resumed political activity freed black nationalists in south africa and vowed to fight against apartheid , raising fears of a possible white backlash .
warned that risked bringing chaos and eventual black marxist rule to the nation the government 's release sunday of eight black political prisoners the nation 's main white opposition party .
said `` is fully satisfied bush '' with cia director webster and the intelligence agency 's performance during the oct. 3 failed coup in panama the white house .
reported that was frustrated unidentified senior administration officials with webster 's low-profile activities during the insurrection and wanted replaced him the washington post .
approved limits on automatic wage increases poland 's legislature without special provisions for food price rises .
was considered a test of the solidarity-led government 's resolve to proceed with a harsh economic-restructuring program the vote .
installed a three-party non-socialist government norway 's king olav v as relinquished power gro harlem brundtland 's three-year-old labor regime .
is led the 19-member cabinet by prime minister jan syse , who acknowledged a `` difficult situation '' since control only 62 seats in oslo 's 165-member legislature the coalition .
opened a new round of talks with the country 's leftist rebels el salvador 's government in an effort to end a decade-long civil war .
said would present a cease-fire proposal the guerrillas during the negotiations in costa rica that include constitutional and economic changes a spokesman .
said there was a `` possibility '' that was selling their u.s.-supplied arms some nicaraguan rebels to salvadoran guerrillas , the state department but insisted was it n't an organized effort .
separately , complained secretary of state baker about a u.n. aide who last week told the contras to disband as part of a regional peace accord .
said rose a provisional 0.4 % british retail sales volume in september from august and was up 2.2 % from september 1988 , the department of trade and industry .
for the three months ended in september , was down 0.5 % from the previous three months and up 1.2 % from a year earlier retail sales volume .
agreed to sell three divisions of cluett peabody & co. for about $ 600 million to bidermann s.a. , a closely held clothing maker based in paris chicago investor william farley .
after shortly completing the $ 1.56 billion acquisition of west point-pepperell inc. in april , said was considering the sale of cluett , a leading shirt maker and one of west point-pepperell 's biggest units it mr. farley 's holding company , farley inc. , .
included is cluett units that make men 's shirts under the arrow name , socks under the gold toe name and menswear through the schoeneman division in the sale .
said is the agreement subject to bidermann 's receipt of financing and to regulatory and other approvals the companies .
said is expected to be concluded by the end of november the sale they .
said should bring in a total of about $ 700 million the sale of three of cluett 's four main divisions plus other `` anticipated '' west point-pepperell asset sales by december , mr. farley .
did n't elaborate he on other asset sales being considered .
followed a similar pattern mr. farley when acquired northwest industries inc. he and then sold much of its assets .
but kept fruit of the loom inc. , the underwear maker still control that he and serve as chairman and chief executive he .
was cluett an independent company until acquired it west point-pepperell for $ 375 million in cash and stock in 1986 .
in the fiscal year ended sept. 30 , 1988 , had operating profit of $ 37 million on sales of $ 757 million cluett .
sell clothes bidermann under various labels , including yves saint laurent and bill robinson for men and ralph lauren for women .
said had sales of $ 400 million the company in 1988 a spokesman .
in new york stock exchange composite trading , fell 25 cents west point-pepperell to $ 53.875 .
intend to change its name to manpower plc and write off a chunk of the nearly $ 1.2 billion in good will realized in the takeover of u.s.-based manpower inc britain 's blue arrow plc .
said that the two steps may be a prelude to reincorporating the world 's biggest employment-services group in the u.s. blue arrow chairman mitchell fromstein in an interview .
disclosed the planned steps , expected within a few months , mr. fromstein as posted a 2.5 % drop in its third-quarter pretax earnings blue arrow .
could help solidify blue arrow 's dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market and give a more american image it as turn jittery about foreign stocks u.s. investors after friday 's market plunge the name change and good will write-off .
now own more than 60 % of blue arrow u.s. holders compared with 9 % last january .
`` in the u.s. market , is the recognition of the manpower name infinitely stronger than blue arrow , '' said mr. fromstein .
also could erase shareholders ' perception of blue arrow as a company in turmoil the moves .
`` further reinforce the concept that is blue arrow a thing of the past , it '' said doug arthur , an analyst at kidder peabody & co. in new york .
make a lot of sense the proposed changes `` all '' to me , added he .
in a widely publicized boardroom coup , ousted antony berry mr. fromstein as blue arrow chief executive in january , a month after had forced out mr. fromstein mr. berry as the $ 1 million-a-year chief of milwaukee-based manpower .
solidified his control mr. fromstein in april by taking over from mr. berry as chairman .
but is n't over yet , the blue arrow tumult as is investigating a disputed # 25 million ( $ 39.4 million ) loan which have said was made under mr. berry 's direction mr. fromstein the british government .
was blue arrow able to pull off the $ 1.34 billion takeover of manpower in 1987 because largely produce higher reported earnings different british and american accounting standards for british companies .
under british rules , was blue arrow able to write off the $ 1.15 billion in good will arising from the purchase at once .
would have as a u.s.-based company , to amortize the good will over as many as 40 years , creating a continuing drag on reported earnings blue arrow .
is good will the excess of cost of an acquired firm , operating unit or assets over the current or fair market value of those assets .
but with so many shares now held in the u.s. , report two ways , blue arrow its earnings based on both u.k. and u.s. accounting standards .
`` look our balance sheets like came they from alice 's wonderland , '' said mr. fromstein .
show `` a handful of pounds of net worth '' the british version following the 1987 write-off of good will , while reflect `` $ 1 billion of net worth '' the american version because have been written off almost none of -lcb- the good will -rcb- .
said hope to eradicate some of the good will left on blue arrow 's u.s. books in one fell swoop , he mr. fromstein but would n't specify how much .
suggested would represent a sizable chunk , the write-down with claiming overstated the extent of manpower 's good will prior management executives people close to blue arrow .
along with the return to the manpower name , could bolster the company 's prospects that move , during possibly difficult times for temporary help .
said fell about 1 % the number of u.s. temporary workers in the 12 months ending aug. 31 , after sliding nearly 3.5 % in july , kidder peabody 's mr. arthur .
blamed partly the pretax profit drop in the quarter ended july 31 blue arrow on slower earnings growth of non-manpower units in britain .
overall , slid pretax profit to # 18.49 million in the quarter from # 18.98 million a year earlier .
hope to guide a similar turnaround at the company 's latest acquisition , barry wright corp richard g. sim , the man credited with transforming applied power inc. from an underachiever into a feisty player in the global market for hydraulic tools , .
figure it will be easier this time the 45-year-old former general electric co. executive .
but while applauding the acquisition , say face a tough challenge in integrating the two companies applied 's chief executive analysts , .
make computer-room equipment and vibration-control systems barry wright , acquired by applied for $ 147 million , .
the watertown , mass. , company 's sales have been dormant and have dropped its profits .
was last year 's earnings of $ 1.3 million , including $ 815,000 from a restructuring gain , far below the year-earlier $ 8.4 million .
besides spurring barry wright 's sales , which were $ 201.7 million in 1988 , must pare its costs and product line mr. sim .
say `` is how long be going to take barry wright to make a contribution , it the question '' f. john mirek , an analyst at blunt ellis loewi in milwaukee .
will help determine whether continues to reach the ambitious goals set by mr. sim applied the answer .
went public the butler , wis. , manufacturer at $ 15.75 a share in august 1987 , and then was mr. sim 's goal a $ 29 per-share price by 1992 .
helped achieve far ahead of schedule , that price in august 1988 strong earnings growth .
have since softened trading around $ 25 a share last week and closing yesterday at $ 23.00 in national over-the-counter trading the stock , .
but have set a fresh target of $ 50 a share mr. sim by the end of
say robert t. foote , applied 's chief financial officer , will require `` efficient reinvestment '' of cash by applied and continuation of its healthy 19 % rate of return on operating capital reaching that goal , .
in barry wright , see a situation `` very similar '' to the one faced he when joined applied he as president and chief operating officer in 1985 mr. sim .
was stagnating applied , then a closely held company , under the management of its controlling family .
while profitable , `` was n't growing it and was n't providing a satisfactory return on invested capital , '' say he .
is mr. sim confident that will work the drive to dominate certain niche markets at barry wright as it has at applied .
also profess an `` evangelical '' fervor to develop a corporate culture that reward managers who produce and where is shared decision-making he .
consider the new unit 's operations `` fundamentally sound '' mr. sim and add that barry wright has been fairly successful in moving into markets that have n't interested larger competitors .
say `` with a little patience , will perform very satisfactorily , these businesses '' mr. sim .
within about six months , `` will be moving things in the right direction , '' predict he .
figure it will be easier to turn around barry wright since be he now in the driver 's seat mr. sim .
when came he to applied , `` did n't have the power to execute as do i today , i '' say he .
was named chief executive officer of applied he in 1986 and became chairman last november .
at applied , set growth mr. sim as his first objective .
took the company public he in an offering that netted about $ 12.6 million , applied which helped launch the company 's acquisition program .
climbed sales to an estimated $ 245 million in fiscal 1989 , ended aug. 31 , from $ 99.9 million in fiscal 1985 .
expect that reached up from $ 15.2 million in fiscal 1988 and $ 3.9 million in 1985 about $ 20.8 million , or $ 1.58 a share , earnings , which have marched steadily upward in recent years , in the fiscal year just ended , the company .
