introduced influential members of the house ways and means committee legislation that would restrict how can raise the new savings-and-loan bailout agency capital , creating another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts .
would prevent the bill , include whose backers chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill. ) , the resolution trust corp. from raising temporary working capital by having an rtc-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget .
intend the bill to restrict the rtc to treasury borrowings only , unless receive the agency specific congressional authorization .
said rep. fortney stark ( d. , calif. ) , the bill 's chief sponsor `` is such agency ` self-help ' borrowing unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct treasury borrowing , '' .
include the complex financing plan in the s&l bailout law raising $ 30 billion from debt issued by the newly created rtc .
was created this financing system in the new law in order to keep the bailout spending from swelling the budget deficit .
would be raised another $ 20 billion through treasury bonds , which pay lower interest rates .
but also require the rtc `` working '' capital to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that is sold , until can be sold separately the assets .
would be paid off that debt leaving the total spending for the bailout at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years as is sold the assets , .
said `` be it a problem that clearly have to be resolved , '' david cooke , executive director of the rtc .
have already spent the agency roughly $ 19 billion selling 34 insolvent s&ls , and is it likely to sell 600 or merge by the time conclude the bailout .
absent other working capital , said he , would be forced the rtc to delay other thrift resolutions until could be raised cash by selling the bad assets .
said he `` would have we to wait until have collected we on those assets before can move forward , we '' .
have muddied the complicated language in the huge new law the fight .
do allow the law the rtc to borrow up to $ 5 billion from the treasury at any time .
moreover , say it may not exceed the rtc 's total obligations $ 50 billion , but is derived that figure after including notes and other debt , and subtracting the market value of the assets hold the rtc from it .
say opponents of the rtc 's working-capital plan , but did n't anticipate congress more public debt , or intend and said rep. charles schumer ( d. , n.y . ) the rtc oversight board has been remiss in not keeping informed congress .
said he `` lead that secrecy to a proposal like the one from ways and means , which seems sort of draconian , to me '' .
`` is going the rtc to have to pay a price of prior consultation on the hill if want they that kind of flexibility '' .
will hold the ways and means committee a hearing on the bill next tuesday .
we 're about to see if work advertising .
hard on the heels of friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that be followed , is rolling out a few big brokerage firms new ads trumpeting a familiar message : keep on investing , be the market just fine .
is their mission to keep clients from fleeing the market , as did individual investors in droves after the crash in october
just days after the 1987 crash , rushed out major brokerage firms ads to calm investors .
this time around , be moving even faster they .
filmed painewebber inc. a new television commercial at 4 p.m. edt yesterday and had it on the air by last night .
placed fidelity investments new ads in newspapers yesterday , and wrote another new ad appearing today .
by yesterday afternoon had already written shearson lehman hutton inc. new tv ads .
considered it running them during tomorrow night 's world series broadcast but decided not to when recovered the market yesterday .
was plotting out other brokerage firms , including merrill lynch & co. , potential new ad strategies .
learned the brokerage firms a lesson the last time around , when flooded frightened investors the phone lines and fled the market in a panic .
this time , was the firms ready .
for example , prepared several months ago fidelity , ads in case of a market plunge .
when went the market into its free fall friday afternoon , ordered the investment firm full pages in the monday editions of half a dozen newspapers .
touted the ads fidelity 's automated 800-number beneath the huge headline , `` fidelity is ready for your call '' .
say a fidelity spokesman received the 800-line , which already was operating but which about , did n't know many clients about double the usual volume of calls over the weekend .
say he `` come a lot of investor confidence from the fact that can speak they to us , '' .
had we to think ahead of time about it '' .
go today 's fidelity ad a step further , encouraging to stay investors in the market or even to plunge in with fidelity .
underneath the headline `` diversification , '' counsel it `` based on the events of the past week , need all investors to know is balanced their portfolios to help protect them against the market 's volatility '' , .
go on it to plug a few diversified fidelity funds by name .
also was painewebber able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash .
in the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , began the brokerage firm taping in-house , commercials ultimately getting down fast enough to tape a commercial after closed the market and rush it on the air that night its timing .
also negotiated it an arrangement with cable news network under which would agree cnn to air its last-minute creations .
feature the new painewebber commercial , created with ad agency saatchi & saatchi co. , mary farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , sounding particularly bullish .
taped as just closed the market yesterday , offer it ms. farrell advising , `` view here we the market as going through a relatively normal cycle ... .
continue we to feel that is the stock market still the place to be for long-term appreciation '' .
was scheduled the spot to appear three times on cnn last night .
considered painewebber an even harder sell , recommending specific stocks .
instead , settled it on just urging the clients who are its lifeline to keep that money in the market .
say john lampe , painewebber 's director of advertising `` be saying we is the worst thing can do anyone that to see go down the market which just drive down further , the prices and dump everything , '' .
`` if owned you it and liked it friday , have n't changed the true value '' .
add he `` is this n't 1987 revisited '' , .
with fluctuating the market and then closing up more than 88 points yesterday , had investment firms to constantly revise their approach .
at shearson lehman , created executives potential new commercials friday night and throughout the weekend , then had to regroup yesterday afternoon .
had been the plan to make one of shearson 's easy-to-film , black-and-white `` where stand we '' commercials , which have been running occasionally in response to news events since 1985 .
would have run the ad during the world series tomorrow , replacing the debut commercial of shearson 's new ad campaign , `` leadership by example '' .
but in a meeting after closed the market yesterday , decided shearson executives not to go ahead with the stock-market ad .
`` do n't think we need anything to be said at this point .
'' say cathleen b. stewart , executive vice president of marketing seem the market to be straightening out ; be taking we a wait-and-see attitude , .
in any case , is clearly moving faster the brokerage firms to create new ads than did they in the fall of 1987 .
but remain it to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective .
in 1987 , despite a barrage of ads from most of the major investment firms , ran en masse individuals from the market .
now must try the firms their hardest to prove that can work advertising this time around .
reached edward eskandarian , former chairman of della femina , mcnamee wcrs/boston , an agreement in principle to acquire a majority stake in arnold advertising , a small boston shop .
was n't disclosed terms .
become mr. eskandarian , who resigned his della femina post in september , chairman and chief executive of arnold .
will retain john verret , the agency 's president and chief executive , the title of president .
separately , named mcdonald 's corp. , oak brook , ill. , arnold to handle its estimated $ 4 million cooperative ad account for the hartford , conn. , area .
had been handled that account by della femina , mcnamee wcrs .
call a 142-page ad supplement to business week 's special `` corporate '' elite issue to use their clout to help solve the nation 's education crisis on business leaders .
include the supplement , the largest ever for the magazine , ads from 52 corporate advertisers and kicks off a two-year business week initiative on education .
will distribute the magazine 10 % of the gross revenues from the supplement as grants to innovative teachers .
be it what 1 ) explain why is we like , well , ourselves rather than bo jackson ; 2 ) cautions that be it possible to drown in a lake that average two feet deep ; and 3 ) predicts that would produce 10,000 monkeys placed before 10,000 pianos 1,118 publishable rock 'n' roll tunes .
is baseball , that game of the long haul , the quintessential sport of the mean , and caught up the mean ol' law with the san francisco giants in the world series last weekend .
was held the team that dumped runs by the bushel on the chicago cubs in the national league playoffs to just one in two games by the home-team oakland a 's , the gang that had been done similarly unto by the los angeles dodgers and orel hershiser in last year 's tournament .
morever , was accomplished much of the damage by a 's who had some catching up to do .
in game two , on a cool sunday evening in this land of perpetual autumn , was done a lot of the catching up by the a 's catcher , terry steinbach .
hit he a 2-0 pitch from rick reuschel into the left-field stands in inning four to stretch his team 's lead from 2-1 to a decisive 5-1 , where stayed it .
so what if had struck steinbach just seven home runs in 130 regular-season games , and batted in the seventh position of the a 's lineup .
later remarked he `` if get you your pitch , and take a good swing , can happen anything , '' .
had mark mcgwire , the big , red-haired oakland first baseman , three hits two more than 'd had he in the five-game dodger series in which 'd gone 1-for-17 he in four at bats , .
got the a-men batting nos. 6 through 9 , a.k.a. the `` bottom of the order , '' seven of their team 's 11 hits and scored four of its runs in a 5-0 decision .
held right-hander dave stewart the giants to five hits to account for the zero on the other side of the saturday ledger .
indicates that was he the a 's winningest pitcher during its american league campaign with a 21-9 mark , plus two wins over toronto in the playoffs , may have he some evening up coming , but with the way is behaving his split-fingered fastball , might not be that this week .
goes the same for mike moore , another veteran who overcame early struggles to permit but a run and four hits the giants in seven innings in sunday 's contest .
marveled giant manager roger craig `` had every guy put out there they a better split-finger than the guy before , '' .
be he an ex-hurler who 's one of the leading gurus of the fashionable delivery , which look like a fastball until dive it beneath the lunging bat .
is the upshot of the downshoot that go up two games to none in the best-of-seven fest the a 's into san francisco 's candlestick park tonight .
say the stat to reckon here with that went on about three of four clubs ( 29 of 39 ) that took 2-0 series leads to win it all .
be that not an average to soothe giant rooters .
might think one that the home fans in this series of the subway called bart ( be that a better name for a public conveyance than `` desire , '' do n't think you ? ) would have been ecstatic over the proceedings , but observe they them in relative calm .
sat side by side partisans of the two combatants in the 49,000-plus seats of oakland coliseum , and while cheered they their favorites and booed the opposition , advanced no further , at least as far as could see i hostilities .
even showed up a few folks wearing caps bearing the colors and emblems of both teams .
`` i 'm for the giants today , but because only lost they yesterday .
love i 'em both .
'' said david williams , a sacramento septuagenarian , is the only thing be rooting i for for to go the series seven games , at the coliseum before sunday 's go .
choose i to believe be it the latter , although probably spring it from the fact that is just about everyone out here , including the a 's and giants , originally from somewhere else .
suffice it to say that if was this a new york yankees-mets series , or one between the chicago cubs and white sox ( hey , be it possible ) , 'd need you uniformed police in every other seat to separate opposing fans , and would bifurcate only the suicidal their bonnets .
anyway , gave the a 's a lot of heroes to root for you .
in the opening game , besides steinbach and stewart , there was walt weiss , a twiggy-looking , second-year shortstop who had lost a couple months of the season to knee surgery .
was he flawless afield ( ditto in game two ) , moved along a runner in the a 's three-run second inning , and homered for his team 's final tally .
such is his reputation among the east bay bashers that when hit he his first career home run last season , agreed the fan who caught it to turn over the ball to him in return for an autograph .
was an a 's co-hero of the second game rickey henderson , who exemplify the hot side of the hot-cold equation .
smoked he toronto in the playoffs with six hits , seven walks and eight stolen bases in 22 at bats , and continued that by going 3-for-3 at the plate sunday , along with walking , stealing a base and scoring a run .
lectured he `` when 're you in the groove , see tremendously , you every ball '' .
was the cold guys in the set will clark , kevin mitchell and matt williams , the giants ' 3-4-5 hitters .
combined they for 25 hits , six home runs and 24 runs batted in in the five games against the cubs .
went here , they a collective 5-for-24 with zero homers and ribbies .
declared san francisco batting coach dusty baker `` believe i in the law of averages , '' after game two .
`` 'd rather see i come up a so-so hitter who 's hot for the other side than a good hitter who 's cold '' .
but wisely offered the old dodger slugger no prediction about when would return good times to his side .
said he `` when go it , never know you when 'll get back , you it '' .
`` be that baseball .
reported ncr corp. a 10 % drop in third-quarter net income , citing intense competition that caused its gross profit margins to dip .
fell net income for the quarter roughly what had expected analysts to $ 93.1 million from $ 103.1 million , .
but dropped per-share profit only 2 % to $ 1.23 a share from $ 1.26 a share , as continued the company its stock buy-back plan .
dropped average shares outstanding to 75.8 million from 82.1 million .
fell revenue 1 % to $ 1.39 billion from $ 1.41 billion .
also said the computer maker , which sell more than half its goods outside the u.s. , `` will adversely affect the negative effect of a stronger u.s. dollar its fourth-quarter performance '' and `` make difficult to better it 1988 results '' .
said ncr declined revenue reflecting a world-wide softening of the computer markets both in the u.s. and overseas , .
however , said the company , showed orders in the u.s. `` good gains '' during the latest quarter .
estimate analysts those gains at 12 % to 13 % , coming a good part of it from large orders placed by a few of ncr 's major customers .
note sanjiv g. hingorani , an analyst for salomon brothers inc in addition to a general slowing of the computer industry , is also affected ncr , which sell automated teller machines and computerized cash registers , by the retail and financial sectors , `` areas of the economy that have generally not been robust , '' .
said ncr should negatively affect these factors , combined with a strong dollar , the current quarter 's results , .
in the year-earlier fourth quarter , had ncr profit of $ 149.6 million , or $ 1.85 a share , on revenue of $ 1.8 billion .
said mr. hingorani lowered he his full-year estimates for 1989 to $ 5.35 a share from $ 5.50 a share .
was slashed revenue projections to $ 6.03 billion from $ 6.20 billion .
last year , had ncr net income of $ 439.3 million , or $ 5.33 a share , on $ 5.99 billion in revenue .
for the nine months , fell the company 's earnings 9 % to $ 264.6 million , or $ 3.40 a share , from $ 289.7 million , or $ 3.49 a share .
declined revenues 1 % to $ 4.17 billion from $ 4.19 billion .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , fell ncr shares 75 cents to close at $ 57 .
concerning your sept. 19 article `` link wall street firms analysts ' pay to performance , '' be delighted i that is finally tuning in wall street to the hard , cold facts of the real working world .
if is the firms serious , however , why limit the practice to the poor , maligned analysts is whose ability to see into the future fragile at best ?
why not extend the same harsh standards to the sales force , and pay a base salary with annual bonus based on made they how much money for their clients during the year brokers ?
should stop that a lot of account-churning , and produce a stock market driven only by professional concern , careful thought and good sense .
reported steve clark , a shearson lehman hutton inc. trader , for work at 5 a.m. , two and a half hours before the usual monday morning strategy meeting .
at jefferies & co. , did n't reach j. francis palamara the office until 5:30 a.m. , but then he had been up most of the night at home .
said he `` had all night long i calls from the states , '' .
`` was woken up i every hour -- 1:30 , 2:30 , 3:30 , 4:30 .
is looking people for possible opportunities to buy , but want nobody to stick out their chin '' .
for many of london 's securities traders , was it a day that started nervously in the small hours .
by lunchtime , was the selling at near-panic fever .
but as ended the day in a frantic wall street-inspired rally , breathed the city a sigh of relief .
so went it yesterday in the trading rooms of london 's financial district .
in the wake of wall street 's plunge last friday , was considered the london market especially vulnerable .
and before the opening of trading here yesterday , was all eyes on early trading in tokyo for a clue as how widespread to might be the fallout .
by the time officially got trading under way at 9 a.m. , was in the news from asia .
and left it mixed signals for london .
closed off a significant but less-than-alarming 1.8 % on thin volume tokyo stocks ; declined hong kong stocks 6.5 % in orderly trading .
at jefferies ' trading room on finsbury circus , a stately circle at the edge of the financial district , displayed desktop computer screens the london market 's major barometer -- the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index .
indicated red figures on the screens falling stocks ; blue figures , rising stocks .
right away , outnumbered 80 to 20 , the reds the blues , as opened off 157.1 points , or 7 % the index at 2076.8 , .
said mr. palamara , a big , good-humored new york native who run the 15-trader office `` see i concern , but do n't see i any panic , '' .
played conservatively , the jefferies office , a branch of the los angeles-based firm , it seeking to avoid risk .
said david smith , who head trading in all non-u.s. stocks `` is this not the sort of market to have a big position in , '' .
`` tend we to run a very tight book '' .
spent jefferies most of its energies trying to match buyers and sellers , in the morning and there was n't many buyers .
said mr. smith `` is getting pretty well pasted all the takeover stocks -- scottish & newcastle , b.a.t , drg -- this morning , '' .
seconds later , came in a 7,500-share `` sell '' order for scottish & newcastle .
for the third time in 15 minutes , left a trader next to mr. smith the no-smoking area to have a cigarette .
on the screens , remained only two forlorn blue figures , but had recovered the index a few points and was off about 140 .
said mr. smith `` because did n't collapse tokyo , let pick up 's a little stock , '' .
targeted he 7,500 shares of reuters and punched a button to call up other dealers ' price quotes on his screen .
showed the vivid yellow figures the best price at 845 pence , ( $ 13.27 ) and started mr. smith 's traders putting out feelers .
but sensed the market a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling , and immediately jumped the quotes to 850 pence .
said mr. smith `` when want i to buy , run they from you -- keep they changing their prices , '' .
`` be it very frustrating . ''
temporarily abandoned he his search for the reuters shares .
by this time , was it 4:30 a.m. in new york , and fielded mr. smith a call from a new york customer wanting an opinion on the british stock market , which had been having troubles of its own even before friday 's new york market break .
`` fundamentally dangerous ... , '' said mr. smith , almost in a whisper , `` ... . fundamentally weak ... fairly vulnerable still ... extremely dangerously poised ...
be we in for a lot of turbulence ... . ''
was he right .
by midday , was the london market in full retreat .
said danny linger , a pit trader who was standing outside the london international financial futures exchange `` be falling it like a stone , '' .
gathered only half the usual lunchtime crowd at the tony corney & barrow wine bar on old broad street nearby .
was conversation subdued as watched most patrons the latest market statistics on television .
at 12:49 p.m. , hit the index its low , 2029.7 , off 204.2 points .
said early in the afternoon mr. clark , the shearson trader , `` opened down , france the limit off at least 10 % if could calculate you the index , which you could n't , '' .
`` is down 10 % and suspended , spain be down 8 % , sweden norway 11 % .
have been very badly damaged this market '' .
as neared 2:30 p.m. -- wall street 's opening time -- , traded shearson traders and salesmen bets on how low would open the new york market .
in the center of the trading floor , scrambled as soon as opened the new york market -- plummeting more than 60 points in the first few minutes chief trader roger streeter and two colleagues for the telephones .
saw they an opportunity created by the sell-off .
as dumped wall street traders american depositary receipts in jaguar plc , bought mr. streeter and trader sam ruiz them to resell in the u.k .
still expect investors here ford motor co. or general motors corp. to bid for jaguar .
after about 45 minutes , suddenly , rallied the u.s. markets .
shouted one trader `` have gone the mmi better , '' at about 3:15 london time , as suddenly indicated the u.s. major markets index contract a turnabout .
as strengthened wall street , went the london trading room wild .
shouted traders as posted their screens an ever-narrowing loss on wall street .
then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded wall street to a gain on the day .
`` rally ! rally ! rally ! '' shouted shearson trader andy rosen , selling more jaguar shares .
`` is this panic buying ! ''
as rallied the london market , wondered some whether the weekend of worrying and jitters had been worth it .
closed off 70.5 , or about 3.3 % the london index at 2163.4 , its high for the day , .
is ambassador paul nitze 's statement ( notable & quotable , sept. 20 ) , `` if have you a million people working for you , will go wrong at least once a year , every bad thing that have one chance in a million of going wrong '' a pretty negative way of looking at things .
is n't it just as fair to say that if have you a million people working for you , will go right at least once a year every good thing that have one chance in a million of going right ?
approved the house aviation subcommittee a bill that would give authority to review leveraged buy-outs of major u.s. airlines and approve the transportation secretary .
spurred the collapsed plan to acquire ual corp. , parent of united airlines , quick action on the legislation , introduced wednesday and approved by the subcommittee on a voice vote yesterday .
is expected the bill to be taken up by the public works and transportation committee tomorrow , and will be urged a floor vote by next week .
drew the measure criticism from the bush administration and a parting shot from financier donald trump , who yesterday withdrew his takeover bid for amr corp. , the parent of american airlines .
in a letter to subcommittee chairman james oberstar ( d. , minn. ) , criticized mr. trump the bill as an explicit effort to thwart his bid for amr , and said contributed it to the collapse of the deal .
also sent elaine chao , deputy transportation secretary , a letter to express the administration 's opposition to the bill `` in its present form '' .
brushed off rep. oberstar mr. trump 's allegations as an `` excuse for failing his own deal '' .
also said he indicated the fact that had n't come the other letter from transportation secretary samuel skinner there is `` wiggle room '' in the administration 's position .
repeatedly stressed mr. oberstar and other committee members that was the legislation n't a response to any particular market situation .
but cited they the ual and amr examples as reasons to move quickly to enact this legislation .
said aides both in the house and senate is the withdrawal of the trump bid for amr n't likely to deflate efforts to push the legislation .
said one senate aide `` be it still on the fast track and still want we to do it , '' .
is aimed the bill at addressing the concern that might sacrifice an airline costly safety measures to pay off the debt incurred in a leveraged buy-out .
currently , do n't have the transportation secretary clearly established authority to block mergers , but can take the drastic step of revoking the operating certificate of any carrier consider the official unfit .
view supporters of the legislation the bill as an effort to add stability and certainty to the airline-acquisition process , and to preserve the safety and fitness of the industry .
in general , would give the bill a 30-day review period the transportation department before could be acquired 15 % or more of the voting stock of a major u.s. air carrier .
also would require it to notify the acquiring party the transportation secretary and to provide all information relevant to determining the intent of the acquisition .
would allow the bill the secretary to reject a buy-out if have n't been provided sufficient information , or if is the buy-out likely to weaken financially , the carrier result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets , or give control to a foreign interest .
if is needed more information , would have the secretary authority to extend the review period 20 days .
expressed all the witnesses , both congressmen and industry experts , support for the bill in order to prevent profiteers from cashing in on airline profits at the expense of safe , cost-effective service .
but disapproved several committee members , backing some mr. trump 's claim that caused the threat of regulation the failure of the ual deal and the stock-market plunge .
was one of the major concerns expressed by the dissenters that would be prohibited large airlines from divesting themselves of smaller entities and producing independent spin-off companies .
in a possible prelude to the resumption of talks between boeing co. and striking machinists union members , said a federal mediator will meet representatives of the two sides with him tomorrow .
said doug hammond , the mediator , who called the agreement to meet a first step toward a resumption of negotiations `` it could be a long meeting or it could be a short one , '' .
said a boeing spokesman `` be encouraged we that is scheduled again talks but beyond that , have made we no expression of expectations , '' .
have rejected the machinists union a three-year contract offer that would have provided a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus some bonuses .
said boeing currently , is average pay for machinists $ 13.39 an hour , .
now in its 13th day , have idled the strike about 55,000 machinists and has started to delay delivery of some jetliners .
with a strike fund of about $ 100 million , had said the union was prepared it for a long strike .
after the third week on strike , will begin union members receiving $ 100 a week from the fund .
continue work at boeing with manning supervisors and other non-striking personnel the lines .
and at the company 's wichita , kan. , plant , still are working about 2,400 of the 11,700 machinists , said boeing .
under kansas right-to-work laws , can not require contracts workers to be union members .
have declined boeing to say is working how many employees at its giant renton , wash. , plant .
could n't be reached union officials for comment .
said dpc acquisition partners , a hostile suitor for dataproducts corp. , intend it to launch a tender offer for the computer printer maker 's common stock .
also said dpc , a group led by the new york investment firm crescott inc. , plan it to file preliminary materials with the securities and exchange commission regarding a shareholder solicitation to oust dataproducts ' board .
hold dpc a 7.8 % stake in dataproducts and made a $ 15-a-share bid for the company in may , but considered dataproducts management the $ 283.7 million proposal unacceptable .
declined a dpc spokesman to elaborate on the group 's new plan .
in american stock exchange composite trading yesterday , jumped dataproducts shares 62.5 cents to close at $ 9.375 .
announced dataproducts , which had been seeking a buyer for several months , a restructuring plan in september and took itself off the auction block .
include the company 's restructuring plans to split into three sectors , to phase out domestic printer manufacturing operations and to sell its new england subsidiary .
as part of the plan , announced dataproducts a pact to sell $ 63 million of its real estate holdings to trizec properties inc. , a unit of canada 's trizec corp .
said jack davis , dataproducts ' president , chairman and chief executive officer , `` is the company at a loss to understand dpc 's intentions '' .
called he today 's announcement `` opportunistic and disruptive '' and said intend the company to proceed with its restructuring .
plummeted share prices across europe yesterday in response to friday 's new york sell-off , but staged some issues a late comeback after opened wall street without another rout .
have european investors further reason for optimism today , after the u.s. rebound .
was the frankfurt stock exchange , which closed before opened the new york exchanges , the hardest hit of the major european markets , with dropping the dax index 12.8 % .
in london , plummeted prices in early trading and were off as much as 9 % before coming back strong to close down only 3.2 % after the new york opening .
said west german economics minister helmut haussmann `` in my view , will stabilize relatively quickly the stock market , .
there may be one or other psychological or technical reactions , but is n't based they on fundamentals .
is the economy of west germany and the ec -lcb- european community -rcb- highly stable . ''
also was hard hit paris , which has been the center of speculation fever in recent weeks , .
fell share prices in milan , amsterdam , zurich , madrid and stockholm .
also tumbled prices in brussels , where disrupted a computer breakdown trading , .
plunged the dax index of 30 west german blue chips 12.8 % , a one-day record , wiping out the summer 's gains .
closed down 203.56 points the index at 1385.72 , .
by comparison , on black monday , two years ago would have dropped the new index 9.4 % , according to a projection by the exchange .
may have reacted so strongly investors to friday 's u.s. stock market loss because had they vivid memories of the frankfurt exchange 's losing 35 % of its value in the 1987 crash and its wake .
this time , however , may have been hurt many small investors by acting so swiftly .
said andreas insam , an investment adviser for the bank in liechtenstein 's frankfurt branch `` went they all in the wrong direction , '' .
said he told he clients to buy selected west german blue chips after fell they by about 10 % .
after was delayed the opening 30 minutes because of the crush of sell orders , was extended frankfurt 's normal two-hour trading session 75 minutes to handle the heavy volume .
said nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank ag `` was the beginning chaotic , '' .
`` took it three-quarters of an hour before could be worked out enough prices to get a reading on the market '' .
was institutional investors and bankers , spent many of whom watching far eastern markets , the night before in their offices cautiously optimistic after the mild 1.8 % decline in tokyo stock prices .
`` was everybody still confident , including most institutional investors .
'' said norbert braeuer , a senior trader for hessische landesbank is that a little why was surprised everybody by the storm of sell orders from small private investors , .
began late yesterday , some big institutions , including banks , picking up lower-priced shares but wanted most investors to see what would happen in new york before acting .
but if even continue wall street to stabilize , say analysts here could inhibit the latest blow to investor confidence a swift recovery for the frankfurt exchange , which already was showing signs of weakness after had slipped the dax from a 1989 high of 1657.61 on sept. 8 .
was a 16.3 % drop for mannesmann ag and dresdner bank ag 's 9.6 % decline especially problematic for their respective boards , whose plans for major rights issues in november could now be in jeopardy .
last month said dresdner bank hoped it to raise 1.2 billion marks ( $ 642.2 million ) by issuing four million shares at 300 marks each .
yet cropped yesterday 's market dresdner 's share price by 33 marks to 309 marks a share , leaving little incentive for to subscribe investors to the standing price unless recover quickly the market .
headed toward a record drop at midday , recouped the london stock market two-thirds of its losses in the wake of new york 's early rally .
closed off 70.5 points , the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index at 2163.4 , its high for the day , after having plunged 204.2 points at 12:49 p.m .
was it big institutions such as norwich union insurance group , scottish amicable investment managers and standard life assurance co. that spearheaded the rally .
attracted by low prices and encouraged by new york 's performance , scooped up they equities across the board .
was volume 959.3 million shares , more than triple recent levels .
gave late buying a parachute the paris bourse after its free fall early in the day .
ended down 5.4 % the cac general index at 523.6 , a drop of 29.6 points from friday .
said michel vigier , a partner in brokerage firm cholet dupont `` there was a volatility in the market have never seen before , i that '' .
`` when turned around wall street shortly after the opening , there was panic buying in paris '' .
said brokers that as spread the news that was moving up , wall street changed traders who had called to place sell orders their line in mid-conversation , ordering instead buys .
was driven primarily trading by small investors and speculators , with waiting large institutions on the sidelines until late in the day .
when turned wall street , however , entered the big boys the market , looking for bargains .
swung j.p. morgan & co. to a loss in the third quarter , while reported ncnb corp. more than doubled net income , and rose security pacific corp. net 10 % .
as expected , posted j.p. morgan , a $ 1.82 billion net loss for the quarter , reflecting the new york bank 's decision last month to add $ 2 billion to reserves for losses on loans to less-developed countries .
placed the reserve addition among a few major u.s. banks that have covered nearly all their medium and long-term portfolios to less-developed countries with reserves the parent of morgan guaranty trust co. .
equal the latest quarter 's loss $ 9.92 a share .
in the year-earlier quarter , earned morgan $ 233.6 million , or $ 1.25 a share .
called george m. salem , analyst at prudential-bache securities inc. , the results `` mildly disappointing '' .
said mr. salem excluding the $ 2 billion provision and allowing for the taxes paid morgan , was earnings about 65 cents a share , .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , climbed morgan $ 1.50 a share to $ 44.125 .
sank net interest income 27 % in the quarter to $ 254 million from $ 347 million .
said morgan was the interest rate on short-term funds , which borrow banks to finance longer-term loans to customers , `` sharply higher , '' .
received morgan $ 2 million of interest payments on its medium and long-term brazilian loans ; said morgan had been accruing they interest , net interest income would have been $ 35 million higher in the quarter , .
also remain such loans to argentina classified as non-accruing , costing $ 10 million of interest income the bank in the third period .
climbed income from sources other than interest 12 % to $ 414 million , reflecting higher corporate-finance and other fees and gains on sales of investment securities .
said the bank `` was partly offset these increases '' by lower trading-related income , .
grew non-interest expenses 16 % to $ 496 million .
more than doubled ncnb corp. 's net income in the period , largely because of continued strong performance by the bank 's texas operations .
said the charlotte , n.c. , company rose earnings to $ 143.6 million , or $ 1.45 a share , from $ 58.9 million , or 69 cents a share , a year earlier .
included the latest quarter a gain of $ 56.1 million , or 59 cents a share , related to the purchase of the remaining 51 % of ncnb texas national bank from the federal deposit insurance corp .
however , contrasted the strong performance , with an unexpectedly large increase in the size of ncnb 's problem loans , particularly in the southeast .
in the third quarter , jumped nonperforming assets to $ 474.1 million , or 1.43 % of net loans and leases , from $ 232.8 million , or 1.13 % in the second quarter .
totaled nonperformers $ 230.8 million , or 1.27 % in the year-ago third quarter .
included is a $ 33 million loan , which said ncnb `` expect it to be fully repaid early in the fourth quarter , with no loss , '' in the increase in the most recent quarter .
offset the deterioration in credit quality strong loan growth of 17 % in ncnb 's southeast operations , as well as a 28 % growth in deposits resulting from an aggressive marketing campaign .
also helped the higher rates paid on deposits squeeze ncnb 's net interest margin in the southeast to 3.38 % from 3.80 % a year earlier .
in big board composite trading yesterday , jumped ncnb $ 3.50 a share , to $ 51 .
was released results after closed the market .
contributed ncnb texas national , formed from the remnants of of the failed first republicbank corp. of dallas , $ 76.9 million to ncnb 's bottom line in the third quarter .
said ncnb reflect its third-quarter results 100 % of earnings of the texas operation since aug. 1 .
raised ncnb some $ 1.9 billion in new capital during the quarter to complete the ncnb texas purchase , and to acquire several small failed thrifts to fill out its regional franchise .
last week , said the banking company purchased it both freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , and university federal savings association of san antonio , texas , for $ 169.4 million .
in the first nine months , climbed ncnb 's net income 65 % to $ 310.9 million , or $ 3.30 a share , from $ 188.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share , a year earlier .
slowed security pacific 's earnings growth in the third quarter , but was the los angeles bank holding company still able to post a 10 % increase in net income because of robust growth in residential real-estate and consumer loans .
said the company resulted mainly the gain reflecting a 33 % increase in real estate loans ( mainly residential ) , and a 19 % rise in consumer loans from a $ 54 million increase in net interest income , .
in effect replaced these high-yielding loans some low-yielding assets such as inter-bank loans , which was allowed to decrease .
as a result , fell security pacific 's net interest margin only 13 basis points , a more mild decrease than some major banks outside california , which have been reporting more sluggish earnings .
closed down 37.5 cents , security pacific shares at $ 44.625 , in big board composite trading .
represent the earnings a 0.89 % return on assets for security pacific , and an 18.9 % return on equity .
offset the loan growth continuing real-estate loan losses in the depressed arizona market .
reported security pacific a 33 % increase in net credit losses for the quarter , to $ 109 million from $ 81.9 million in the year-ago period .
grew slightly nonperforming loans to $ 1.75 billion at sept. 30 , from $ 1.7 billion a year ago .
was down 22 % , or $ 30.4 million , security pacific 's loan-loss provision because added the year before it to its foreign-debt reserve .
fell non-interest income 6 % in the quarter , mainly because of an unusual gain a year earlier from the sale of hong kong banking operations .
grew non-interest expense only 4 % in the period .
said lin broadcasting corp. wo n't take it a position on a revised tender offer by mccaw cellular communications inc. to buy lin and has asked for clarification of the offer .
is the new offer , which seek 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern , for $ 125 a share for 22 million lin shares .
would require mccaw 's revised tender offer mccaw to begin an auction process in july 1994 that would buy out remaining holders at a per-share price roughly equivalent to might then have a third party what to pay for all of lin .
is asking lin mccaw to clarify its tender offer , which challenge an agreement between bellsouth corp. and lin to merge their cellular-telephone businesses .
have notified bellsouth lin that `` would shortly respond it to the mccaw proposal in as full and effective a manner as is warranted '' .
said the lin board may be misled holders by the provision in the mccaw proposal that `` guarantees '' private market value after five years for the remaining shares .
said the lin board have mccaw `` no obligation to purchase '' and is the definition of private market value uncertain , .
added the board that mccaw would be able to control lin 's operations and `` could , therefore , operate in a manner which could diminish its private market value and attractiveness to a third-party purchaser in five years lin '' .
in national over-the-counter trading , closed down $ 2.75 lin at $ 104.75 , .
said a group of institutional investors in telerate inc. that is dow jones & co. 's $ 18-a-share offer for the electronic financial information services company `` grossly inadequate '' .
in a letter filed with the securities and exchange commission , said the group , which hold about 4.5 million telerate shares , or about 4.7 % of the shares outstanding , `` ... '' at present believe none of us an offer for less than $ 25 per share would be fair and believe some that is $ 25 too low .
was dated the letter oct. 6 .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , closed down 75 cents a share telerate shares yesterday at $ 18.875 , .
have launched dow jones , publisher of the wall street journal , an $ 18-a-share , or $ 576 million , tender offer to acquire the remaining telerate shares outstanding ; own dow jones 67 % of telerate .
have rejected telerate the offer , which expires nov. 3 .
include the group putnam cos. and various affiliates based in boston ; wells fargo bank , san francisco ; the california public employees retirement system , sacramento , calif. , and t. rowe price associates inc. , baltimore .
among other issues , said the group 's letter have it `` concern as whether to meet dow jones 's offer the applicable requirements of procedural fairness '' .
said a spokesman for dow jones had n't seen he the group 's filing , but added `` obviously disagree dow jones with their conclusions , .
is our offer to buy any and all shares tendered at $ 18 a share .
said u.s. trade representative carla hills have ruled the first dispute-settlement panel set up under the u.s.-canadian `` free '' trade agreement that violate canada 's restrictions on exports of pacific salmon and herring the accord .
said mrs. hills have the u.s. and canada to resolve the dispute until nov. 13 .
if is n't reached a solution by then , said she , would have the u.s. the right to suspend some trade concessions to canada equivalent in value to the losses suffered by u.s. fish-processing companies in alaska and the pacific northwest .
in ottawa , however , said canadian trade minister john crosbie accepted the dispute-settlement panel the `` legitimacy of canada 's position on the use of these landing requirements to conserve these important fisheries and manage '' .
questioned about the seeming contradiction in the u.s. and canadian government views of the panel 's report , said an aide for mrs. hills had clearly ruled the panel that `` is the canadian trade restrictions illegal '' .
declined the u.s. trade representative to put a dollar estimate on the losses resulting from the canadian export restrictions .
initially had canada an export prohibition that was replaced by regulations requiring that had such fish to be brought ashore prior to export in british columbia by commercial fishermen .
was defended this action by the canadian government on conservation grounds .
said mrs. hills that rejected the dispute-settlement panel this canadian government argument yesterday .
said she `` fully expect we that will comply canada with the panel 's ruling that also must be ended the `` landing requirement '' , '' .
earlier , determined an international panel set up under the rules of the general agreement on tariffs and trade in geneva that violated the original canadian fish-export restrictions gatt rules .
said mrs. hills wo n't accept the u.s. any delays after nov. 13 because enter u.s. fish-processing firms to purchase the next season 's catch into contracts in the fall .
said she must be removed the canadian restrictions before is concluded such contracts .
to spend a carefree , idle day , when call duty , to pay no heed , to while away the precious hours -- is character what need you .
should somehow be advised the guy who throw an intercept 'cause slip his receiver that can read we at home his lips .
said bancoklahoma corp. completed it a restructuring agreement previously agreed to by the federal deposit insurance corp. , creditor banks and subordinated debenture holders .
would permit the plan the bank holding company to retire its bank and debenture obligations through exchanges of cash and equity .
will continue the fdic , which in 1986 provided $ 130 million in open-bank assistance to bancoklahoma 's bank of oklahoma , tulsa , unit to maintain $ 90 million in preferred stock in the tulsa bank unit .
in exchange for the other $ 40 million , will receive the fdic additional warrants entitling it to buy up from the 55 % option received the fdic under terms of the 1986 capital infusion 60 % of bancoklahoma 's common stock outstanding , .
said the bank holding company in exchange for the $ 76 million is owed they , will receive creditor banks 3.9 million shares of bancoklahoma common stock and the proceeds from the future sales of four subsidiary banks to private buyers , .
said the company also under the agreement , will get debenture holders one million shares of common stock in exchange for $ 7.7 million in debentures and will receive holders of bancoklahoma 's series a preferred stock 1.25 shares of common stock for every share of preferred own they , .
were it true that pave a weak currency the way for trade surpluses , then presumably argentina would be the center of today 's global economy .
said bsn corp. will begin it an offer tomorrow to exchange up to one million of its common shares and all of its $ 16.6 million in 7 3/4 % convertible debentures due 2001 for a package of new debt and common stock warrants .
under terms of the offer , will swap the sporting goods maker $ 9 face amount of 9 1/4 % subordinated notes due 1996 and one warrant for each common share .
allow each warrant the holder to buy one bsn share for $ 10.75 a share at any time over the next seven years .
currently have bsn 4.6 million common shares outstanding .
also is offering bsn $ 850 face amount of new notes and 64 common-stock warrants for each $ 1,000 face amount of its convertible debt outstanding .
said the company can redeem it the warrants at its option for $ 1 each .
is the offer n't contingent on a certain amount of debt or stock being exchanged .
said bsn is making it the offer to shrink its capital and increase shareholder value .
said michael j. blumenfeld , president if accept all the bondholders and holders of one million common shares the offer , will increase bsn its debt by $ 9 million , but also will recognize it a $ 2 million gain from retiring the old debt , .
said he `` have we sufficient cash flow to handle that , '' .
is scheduled the offers to expire in mid to late november .
dropped merrill lynch & co. 's net income 37 % , while posted bear stearns cos. a 7.5 % gain in net , and fell painewebber group inc. 's profit , but would have risen a year ago without a special gain .
reached up 10 % from $ 2.57 billion total revenue $ 2.83 billion , .
reflected the firm 's drop in net weaker revenue in transactions for its own account -- a decline of 19 % to $ 314.6 million on reduced revenue from trading fixed-income securities .
fell investment banking revenue 22 % to $ 296.6 million on fewer equity and municipal underwritings .
grew however , merrill lynch 's commission revenue 21 % , to $ 462.8 million , on higher share prices and volume and on strong sales of mutual funds .
jumped revenue derived from interest and dividends 30 % to $ 1.4 billion .
grew asset-management fee revenue 12 % to $ 151 million .
also reported the brokerage a loss of $ 2.2 million from the discontinued operations and disposal of its fine homes international limited partnership real-estate subsidiary .
said bear stearns reached net in the first quarter ended sept. 29 $ 22.1 million , or 23 cents a share , from $ 20.5 million , or 20 cents a share , in the year-earlier quarter .
rose gross revenue 21 % to $ 580.4 million from $ 478.9 million .
said the securities firm dropped profit from trading for its own account , .
climbed investment banking revenue 25 % , while advanced commission revenue 31 % on a stronger retail market .
is bear stearns the holding company for bear , stearns & co. , the investment banking and brokerage firm .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed down 25 cents bear stearns shares at $ 13.625 , .
separately , posted painewebber net income for the third quarter of $ 16.8 million , or 41 cents a share , reflecting a `` broad-based improvement '' in the company 's core businesses .
surged retail profit , but said the company was it only a `` modest contributor '' to third-quarter results .
a year ago , was net at the new york investment banking firm $ 20.9 million , or 50 cents a share , including a special pretax gain of $ 46.3 million from the sale of the company 's interest in national car rental systems inc .
was revenue $ 444.9 million , including net interest , down slightly from $ 450.7 million .
in big board composite trading yesterday , closed up 75 cents painewebber at $ 18.50 , .
said seafirst corp. signed it an agreement with builder martin selig to purchase its headquarters building , the columbia seafirst center , for $ 354 million .
is purchase of the 76-story structure subject to execution of a definitive agreement , approval by the boards of seafirst and its parent company bankamerica corp. , and approval by regulators .
apparently have n't triggered yet the market upheaval any cash crunch -- .
can suffer individual investors , investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates liquidity and payment problems when dive stocks ; often borrow heavily those investors to buy their holdings and use the stocks as collateral for loans .
but said several large banks detected they no signs of unusual demand for credit that would signal such difficulties yesterday .
said one official at a top 10 bank `` be seeing we nothing out of the ordinary , '' .
`` be that good news , because swim we all in this water . ''
added another executive at a big bank `` was we all a little goosey over the weekend trying to forecast what would happen -lcb- monday -rcb- , but it 's been very quiet : .
shows what happened friday that is not yet sufficiently coordinated financial markets to handle another meltdown in prices .
will ever prevent no fiddling with systems and procedures markets from suffering a panic wave of selling .
but can operate markets with greater or lesser efficiency .
after the 1987 plunge , agreed markets that it would be wise to halt trading whenever arose panic conditions .
adopted the new york stock exchange two specific circuit breakers : if fall the dow jones index 250 points in a day , the exchange will halt trading for one hour ; if hit the decline 400 points , will close the exchange for an additional two hours .
is the rationale that will allow an interruption of trading investors to reconsider their strategies , calm sellers and lead buyers to enter the market at indicated new price levels .
is it impossible to know whether that theory is realistic .
may indeed discourage a temporary cessation of trading a selling panic from feeding on itself .
but there is also the possibility that will intensify shutting down markets fears and cause an even more abrupt slide in prices .
followed the futures exchanges their own pre-set circuit breakers and shut down at about 3 p.m. for 30 minutes , after had fallen the standard & poor 's 500 stock index 12 points , or about 100 points on the dow jones index .
stopped options markets trading in many securities .
under its own rules , remained the new york stock exchange , open .
with nowhere else to go , focused sellers , and particularly program traders , all their selling on the new york stock exchange .
as weakened liquidity on that market , fell sharply prices .
had the futures and options markets been open , would have been provided additional liquidity and the decline , most probably , would have been less intense .
at 3:30 , after intense telephone negotiations between the trading markets and washington , reopened the futures exchanges .
however , was halted altogether futures trading , at 3:45 , after had dropped the futures markets an additional 30 points , which is the daily limit for price declines .
at this point , also shut down the options markets and once more left all sales to be handled by the new york stock exchange .
is it time to recognize that though physically separate , have actually become the new york stock exchange , the futures markets and the options markets , so closely intertwined as to constitute effectively one market .
can vary traders their strategies and execute their orders in any one of them .
therefore make it no sense for to adopt each market different circuit breakers .
would not have halted synchronized circuit breakers the slide in prices on friday , but probably would have made they for smoother , less volatile executions .
it 's time for to agree the exchanges and the securities and exchange commission on joint conditions for halting trading or staying open .
let 's not have shut down one market for 30 minutes when decline the dow 100 points and shut down another for an hour after a 250-point decline .
will disappear the need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials once is rules in place that synchronize circuit breakers in all markets .
if is they to be applied at all , will require the new circuit breakers , that continue as long as remain the new york stock exchange open futures and options trading .
should be established the rules by agreement of the officials of all affected exchanges acting under the oversight and with the approval of the government regulatory agencies .
should the sec and the commodities futures trading commission ( which , with the sec , regulates the chicago stock-index markets ) be unable to agree , may have the issue to be resolved by decision of the treasury secretary .
in many ways , is better prepared our financial markets to handle a decline today than was two years ago they .
now have the new york stock exchange the capacity to handle a volume of nearly a billion shares a day .
have been improved telephone service for customers trying to reach their brokers , and have specialists -- who believe i should stay , despite the urgings of some post-crash critics -- larger capital positions .
( of course , can never prevent specialists ' actions alone a major crack in stock prices .
witness the fact that closed early friday trading in some stocks and opened late monday because of an excess of sell orders ) .
but remain the task of improving market performance unfinished .
is mr. freund , former chief economist of the new york stock exchange , a professor of economics at pace university 's business school in new york .
pose a unified europe labor problems and prospects for u.s. firms .
say general electric senior vice president frank doyle could set the `` social dimension '' -- worker concerns -- of the european community 's plan to open its internal borders in 1992 the effort `` off the rails '' if not done reasonably , .
say he face u.s. companies wanting to expand in europe in nations such as west germany , which play a big consulting role in management decisions , `` tough pressure '' from unions .
say fmc corp. and baxter international also wo n't like unions plant relocations and needed restructuring , which mean layoffs .
have already begun many employers moving to southern countries such as spain and italy , where is wages low and is unions weaker ; will rise there , demand for trained labor and managers say fmc .
see pfizer , fluor and ge big `` ec '' 92 pluses : a push for job training and ease in moving and finding workers .
so said a federal judge , in a case involving two players for the minor league bluefield , va. , orioles , a baltimore farm team .
was heckled the players by a patron during a july 4 , 1988 , game with the martinsville phillies .
said the judge like its parent that year , `` was not having bluefield a good year , '' .
after the game ( noted he `` lost 9-8 , bluefield stranding three runners in ... the ninth , , '' ) , began trouble .
said the players , led more taunting in the parking lot , to a fight .
said the fan was punched he and kicked by one player and that broke the other his jaw with a baseball bat .
dismissed however , the judge the fan 's suit against the team , ruling the orioles innocent of negligent hiring , and not responsible for a fight that was outside the players ' employment .
arise proposals for coping with the shortage of nurses .
urge an association of academic health centers report freeing from duties that do n't require special skills nurses .
also recommend it better retirement and day-care benefits , and basing pay on education , experience and nurses ' demanding work schedules .
but oppose it an american medical association proposal for creating a `` registered care technologist , '' as `` potentially divisive '' ; say it would entail the job an unwanted new doctor 's `` bedside '' extension .
sign up mra staffing systems nurses for paid travel , promising annual income up to $ 50,000 and free or subsidized housing .
say consultant hay group treating employees with respect is crucial for managers , after surveys of a million workers .
be it in their top five `` work values . ''
say fully 80 % of employees who say treat their bosses them with respect , but only a third of those who do n't feel respected be satisfied they with where work they .
sprucing up the digs : for four months painted about 200 employees of the maryland department of economic and employment development walls , polished floors , and carpeted bought plants , cleaned windows and blinds , and hung pictures at the agency 's baltimore office .
will save the 3,000 hours of work $ 55,000 the state .
indicate a bureau of national affairs survey of 250 companies with pacts expiring next year will get again curbing wage boosts high priority in 1990 collective bargaining , .
despite labor-shortage warnings , aim 80 % for first-year wage increases of under 4 % ; and say 77 % 'd try they to replace workers , if struck , or would consider it .
say the national association of temporary services have temporary workers good educations , ; show its survey of 2,508 such employees 82 % with more than a high-school education , and 31 % with college degrees .
have retired about 12 % from a full-time job , while was asked 54 % to stay on full time .
rise home-sale losses , but be often covered they by employers .
but search they for ways to limit the damage .
reimburse about 72 % for all or some losses .
say the council since 1984 , give more companies sales-loss aid , as depreciated many real-estate values , .
pay rjr nabisco up to $ 30,000 of losses , including improvements .
wo n't ensure goodrich loss coverage , but will prevent a `` catastrophic loss '' ; have given it the full purchase price when fell values from concern over dangers posed by a disposal site some employees .
will buy federal express , dow chemical , ford and national city corp. the home or let sell the worker to an outside firm , but usually wo n't cover a loss .
since 1984 , rose firms offering prepurchase house appraisals , to deter overpaying , to 40 % of those polled the council , from 28 % .
the checkoff : give the national academy of engineering a $ 350,000 achievement award two inventors of the semiconductor microchip ... .
now , be that reactionary : accuse letter carriers union president vincent sombrotto philadelphia postmaster charles james of `` 12th century ... oppressive management tactics .
was yesterday , in the words of new york stock exchange chairman john j. phelan jr. , just your `` reasonably normal , 400 million-share , up 88-points day . ''
when was over it all and had staged stocks a huge recovery , was big board officials self-congratulatory about how well had gone the day .
said they could n't have performed better the exchange 's trading procedures , personnel , equipment and links with other exchanges .
said mr. phelan `` had we no operating problems at all , '' after closed the market .
`` worked extremely well all the things set up we that to slow down the process , to let people know that was the market in an extreme position , '' .
said officials was carried prices for the 416.3 million shares that changed hands during the session on the exchange 's trading tape with barely a delay , .
while reaching blockbuster proportions yesterday , was the volume still well within the 600 million-share capacity have said the exchange that can handle daily it since beefing up its computers after the october 1987 crash .
was n't triggered the so-called circuit breakers devised to quell free falls in stock and futures prices by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange yesterday because was the markets higher for most of the day .
despite traders ' complaints , said mr. phelan worked the links with the chicago futures market as planned to provide a cooling-off period in friday 's rout .
of greater help , said the big board chairman , was the `` natural circuit breaker '' of the weekend , that provided a breathing period `` brought back that rationality to the market .
ruffled chicken chains by loss of customers
is struggling fast-food chicken chains , faced with a worsening business slump , to hatch some new marketing strategies .
say the crest report , which track consumer purchases , fell customer traffic at chicken restaurants 10 % in the second quarter , while was down 2 % the overall fast-food customer count .
say a spokesman for the report , a publication of npd group , a market research firm in port washington , n.y is chicken business off largely because of more competition from grocery-store convenience food , home-delivered pizza and other takeout fare , .
is the loss of more customers the latest in a string of problems .
is still troubled church 's fried chicken inc. and popeye 's famous fried chicken inc. , which have merged , by overlapping restaurant locations .
also is feeling chicken chains more pressure from mcdonald 's corp. , which introduced its mcchicken sandwich this year and recently tested the sale of individual pieces of chicken .
have fought back new management at kentucky fried chicken , a unit of pepsico inc. , with new medium and large chicken sandwiches for the lunch crowd .
and is testing the chain products that are n't fried , such as `` char-grilled '' chicken , to try to win health-conscious consumers .
also is testing kentucky fried chicken home-delivery of chicken , which could be a hit with stay-at-home diners .
but say some fast-food industry analysts must be solved first problems with keeping chicken warm and fresh .
however , disputed a kentucky fried chicken spokesman , the notion that experienced the delivery service problems in some markets where have been discontinued testing .
say he is continuing the test in chicago , columbus , ohio , and a few other cities .
is buzzing the advertising industry with rumors that will drop kentucky fried chicken young & rubicam and seek a new ad agency .
but decline the company to comment .
predict emanuel goldman , a painewebber inc. analyst , will post kentucky fried chicken an 11 % drop in 1989 net income .
`` they 've been laggard , '' say he , `` but '' 'll have they to become more aggressive .
try reluctant advertisers soft-sell spots
is selling pittsburgh consultant david bear to clients who want exposure yet shun pushy ads a soft approach .
his ploy : 60-second radio spots that offer helpful hints .
is the only plug for the sponsor a brief mention at the end of the spot .
resemble the messages the business traveler , a daily dose of travel tips developed by mr. bear and sponsored by travel agencies in several major cities .
include new un-advertisers burt hill kosar rittlemann associates , a butler , pa. , architectural firm .
feature its radio series such spots as `` floodlights : evening wear for urban structures '' and `` building a place to park '' .
say john kosar , the firm 's president , `` would detract a harder sell , from the profession '' .
have signed up hospitals to use the messages to promote fundraisers , and is considering equitable gas co. the format to offer energy tips to consumers .
say john fitzgerald , chairman of ketchum advertising usa , which created similar radio spots for pittsburgh national bank `` there be always a risk of lost messages , '' .
`` be it a question of gain you how much credibility for the possible loss of recognition . ''
see retailer pitfalls in environmental push
here be a retailer that 's getting tough in the push for environmentally safe packaging and products .
plan big bear supermarkets inc. , a grocery chain based in san diego , to display shelf cards and distribute pamphlets recommending products deemed safe for the environment .
will be based the choices on research by the san diego environmental health coalition and will include products like murphy 's oil soap and other noncorrosive cleaners .
but is quickly realizing the chain the pitfalls of such endorsements .
for example , recommend it nonchlorinated dishwasher detergent and put sunlight on its environmentally safe list .
do n't thrill that procter & gamble co. , maker of cascade dishwasher detergent .
questioned a company spokesman the validity of the list , noting that is chlorine present in all major dishwasher detergents .
in fact , confirm lever bros. that do contain its sunlight brand chlorine bleach , though even is n't listed it on the label for the powder version .
said thomas g. dahlen , big bear 's executive vice president , is still reviewing the chain its product list to avoid such problems .
say he `` is our intent to promote the best alternative , '' .
`` and be it important that we be accurate . ''
but in the end , is customers ' wishes what will prevail .
do n't care big bear for disposable diapers , which are n't biodegradable .
yet demand parents them .
say mr. dahlen , `` 'll still be forced we to sell items might not philosophically agree we with '' .
do count neatness -- at least in the grocery store .
show a study by safeway 's scanner marketing research climbed soap sales 5 % when was neatly stacked bars on shelves instead of dumped in a wire basket ... .
is which celebrity endorsers most believable ?
for the third year in a row , voted consumers bill cosby first and james garner second in persuasiveness as spokesmen in tv commercials , according to video storyboard tests , new york .
replaced michael j. fox bruce willis in third place ; placed cher fourth for the second time .
said bush administration officials have chosen health and human services secretary louis sullivan antonia novello to be the next surgeon general , .
if is nominated she by president bush and confirmed by the senate , would succeed dr. novello c. everett koop , who rattled liberals and conservatives alike with his outspoken views on a range of health issues .
is dr. novello , an expert on pediatric kidney diseases , deputy director of the national institute of child health and human development .
have also served she on several task forces on acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
said dr. novello 's office would n't talk she with reporters , and refused it to release any information about her .
said the newsletter medicine & health , which first disclosed her selection by dr. sullivan , is she 44 years old and studied she at the university of puerto rico school of medicine .
is the continuing series of hud scandals a sadly predictable result of pork-barrel politics .
nevertheless , continue lobbies such as the national association of home builders ( nahb ) to pressure capitol hill for more special-interest spending .
argue kent colton , nahb executive vice president , that face the u.s. a multifaceted housing crisis -- reduced affordability of homes for first-time buyers , increased homelessness , and lower apartment construction rates -- that will be `` very difficult '' to solve `` without expanded federal resources '' .
there be nothing unusual about business groups pushing for more government spending .
but was created the nahb out of an organization that made its name fighting a roosevelt administration proposal to take over all defense housing production in 1943 .
argue mr. colton `` have dropped the hud budget by more than 70 % since 1980 , '' .
`` have taken we more than our fair share .
would n't have i a problem if had taken other programs a similar hit '' .
but is not related nahb support for subsidies to the current housing crunch ; over the years have backed the nahb a host of public programs .
once pushed it for a national housing production goal set by the federal government and have regularly advanced anti-recession housing measures .
explain one hud official , moreover , remain the nahb susceptible to internal pressure from members that specialize in subsidized production .
is pushing the association an extensive and expensive wish-list , which would substantially boost spending above the current level of more than $ 15 billion annually .
would like it to peg the ceiling on federal housing administration mortgage guarantees to 95 % of the median price in a particular market , instead of limiting it to $ 101,250 ; reduce fha down-payment requirements ( or even eliminate ) and increase the availability of variable-rate mortgages ; expand the veterans affairs department loan guarantee program ; provide `` adequate '' funding for the farmers home administration ( fmha ) ; increase federal funding and tax incentives for the construction of low-income and rental housing , including $ 4 billion in block grants to states and localities ; and `` fully fund the mckinney act , a $ 656 million potpourri for the homeless '' .
have proved direct federal subsidies for housing construction intolerably expensive in the past , and inevitably are twisted to the benefit of well-connected developers and lobbyists , as demonstrated by the ongoing hud scandal , or congressmen .
through the fha , for instance , is indirect subsidies , little better .
though say mr. colton would result expanding fha lending in `` no cost to the government , '' would result the mere diversion of funds from other parts of the economy and from other forms of housing ( such as low-income ) to the single-family home market in a major expense .
more important , is housing programs run by hud , the va , and fmha awash in red ink .
lost the fha alone $ 4.2 billion in fiscal 1988 ; fell the government 's equity in the agency , essentially its reserve fund , to minus $ 2.9 billion .
have had the federal government to pump in $ 2.28 billion into the va housing program since 1984 to keep the fund afloat and requested the va an additional $ 120 million for the fiscal year just ended .
all told , already guarantee the federal government more than $ 900 billion of mortgages .
in its nicely produced publication `` where will live our children ? '' do acknowledge the nahb that `` of course , can not be provided the full measure of housing affordability by the federal government '' .
point it to the pernicious impact of local government regulation , particularly zoning and building fees , which push the price of housing out of the reach of low- and middle-income people .
but while have suggested the nahb actions should take states and localities that to reduce regulatory barriers , have proposed the association no activist legislative program -- comparable to , say , its detailed request for more federal subsidies -- to eliminate counterproductive controls .
is the association , build a majority of whose 156,000 members fewer than 25 units a year , like many other business lobbies .
explain sheila macdonald of the national taxpayers union `` tread it in two worlds : .
like the builders the subsidies , but at the same time tend they to be fiscal conservatives in terms of major issues , such as the balanced-budget amendment '' .
unfortunately , tend the organization 's desire for pork to override its commitment to overall fiscal responsibility .
say ms. macdonald when lobbied the nahb for the $ 19 billion omnibus housing bill , `` two years ago basically dropped the organization out of the taxpayers ' coalition , '' .
as acknowledge mr. colton of the nahb : `` is not going government to solve the problem ... .
is the real key to have working the economy and interest rates down '' .
will increase more money for hud the deficit and destabilize the economy ; will further insulate more money to municipalities that is wrecking their local housing markets them from the destructive effects of their policies .
is this what want the home builders ?
is mr. bandow a cato institute fellow .
( see related story : `` and bills to make come wishes true '' -- wsj oct. 17 , 1989 .
in an attempt to give new momentum to european community plans for a single currency , is ec government leaders likely to agree to set a date for starting formal talks on amending the ec 's founding treaty of rome .
according to diplomatic sources in brussels , agree most ec leaders that should begin talks in the second half of 1990 , and will make a declaration on that during a summit meeting in strasbourg , france , on dec. 8 and 9 .
come the only strong opposition to changing the ec treaty from british prime minister margaret thatcher , who is opposed to creating a single ec currency .
but do n't require the process of convening the intergovernmental conference unanimity .
fought french president francois mitterrand to set a date for the conference during the ec summit in madrid last june , but was scuttled the move because of opposition by mrs. thatcher and west german chancellor helmut kohl .
said diplomatic sources may now agree mr. kohl to set a date for the conference to make clear that is still committed it west germany to ec unity .
remind the latest crewcut in the equities markets me of the joke tell t. boone pickens about the guy who was run over by the parade .
when asked `` what went wrong '' ? replied the unfortunate victim `` was it a combination of things '' , .
and so was it on gray friday .
would appear the grand marshal of this parade to have been excess leverage .
if even is so , that however , be it probably the case that should have been erected no barriers to stop the procession before the end of the rout ( e ) .
began the ceremonies friday afternoon when spread word that was collapsing the ual buy-out .
although expect the union-bidder to patch together a substitute offer , consisting of less cash , confirmed the failure to get cash from japanese and american banks a growing fear among arbitragers that is ending the pageant of high-leverage takeover deals .
made up lots of other entries the parade , of course -- notably a surprisingly large increase in producer prices , signalling federal reserve tightness ; and the bush administration 's ( temporary ? ) defeat in trying to lower the capital-gains tax .
as usual , was heard few favorable reviews for that ever-present marching band of program traders , although suggest most serious studies only play they the music that write others .
what really spooked the crowds along wall street , however , was the sudden concern that , whatever the reason , is drying up the pool of debt capital .
reflect gray friday a panic mainly by the takeover arbitragers , rather than the small investor , as is jeopardized their highly margined investments in the `` deal '' stocks by the unexpected drying up of the lubricant for deal financing .
led down deal stocks the market as absorbed they the heaviest losses .
opened down about 20 % from thursday 's close ual , which triggered the slide , monday at $ 224 , .
opened down nearly 20 % from thursday 's close amr monday at $ 80 , .
lost hilton 20 % on friday ; lost paramount almost 11 % .
reveal a careful look that where have been secured deal financing , was not affected the target 's stock price on friday .
was the multibillion-dollar prospects , where must line up the bidder a consortium of banks and/or issue billions in high-yield debt , where was concentrated the damage .
have been setting the market for so-called junk bonds the stage for friday 's dramatic march for several weeks .
have cast the growing financial difficulties of recent high-leverage restructurings or takeovers , such as resorts international , integrated resources , and campeau 's retailing empire , a pall over the entire market for high-yield securities .
have reacted investors by ignoring recent efforts to float junk bonds by ohio mattress and by forcing ramada to postpone indefinitely its planned junk-bond sale and restructuring .
as a result , have declined high-yield mutual funds across the board and is experiencing the many firms planning to sell $ 11 billion in junk bonds before year-end anxious times .
is these all market excesses ( putting aside the artificial boosts give the tax code that to debt over equity ) , and is what 've seen we reining in the market them .
of course , washington had n't been silent in the days leading up to the debacle , and remain its tendency to meddle in the leverage equation a troublesome prospect , but should n't distract those preliminary steps us from the basic market fundamentalism that was at work on friday .
if is it correct to find that caused concerns over corporate debt and lbos gray friday , what is the implications for policy makers ?
after all , might be taken the stock market 's response to the collapse of the ual deal to confirm the anti-debt direction of regulators .
is this a case where is approving private markets of washington 's bashing of wall street ?
to the extent that reflected friday 's sell-off a sudden reappraisal of the excesses of leverage , is the message that is wall street and the private markets fully capable of imposing the appropriate incentives and sanctions on corporate behavior .
is much better served the national economic interests allowing the private interests of bankers and investors be the ultimate judges of the investment quality of various lbo deals and leveraged restructurings .
underscore the recent difficulties in the junk-bond markets and the scarcity of bank capital for recent deals the wisdom of letting operate the free markets .
if become takeover premiums excessive , if become lbo dealmakers too aggressive , then will recognize more quickly and accurately than will policy makers , the private market these problems and will move the markets to impose appropriate sanctions with lightning speed .
yes , got caught up the broader exchanges in the spiral , but rode up they the tiger all year .
not surprisingly , sometimes bite he .
got killed the arbitragers and takeover initiatiors on gray friday , while cheered lustily the besieged managers of prospective targets .
if identify you with the besieged managers , must concede you that is speedy and effective relief from the excesses of the takeover market more likely to come from the marketplace than from washington .
if side you with the arbitragers and raiders , clearly have you more to fear from private investors than from regulators , although should never be underestimated the delaware courts .
is the truth understand better than economics washington politics , .
although is probably not harmed too much the average citizen from washington 's rhetorical war against wall street regarding excessive financial leveraging , would probably impose actual legislation considerable harm .
is any such attempt to distinguish `` good debt '' from `` bad debt , '' or to draw the line at a particular industry , such as the airlines , likely to blunt the spur provide the proper amount of leverage that both to equity markets and economic efficiency in general .
far better for to concentrate policy makers on the war against drugs , panama and the deficit , all of them parades that seem never to end .
teach mr. jarrell , former top economist at the securities and exchange commission , at the university of rochester 's simon business school .
rebounded tokyo share prices tuesday morning , with rising the nikkei index of 225 selected stocks 618.69 points to close the morning session at 35087.38 .
slid the index 647.33 points , or 1.8 % , on monday .
in the first 25 minutes of tuesday 's trading soared the nikkei index 664.83 points , to 35133.83 .
by 10 a.m. tokyo time , was up 435.11 points , to 34903.80 the index as hailed investors new york 's overnight rally .
came monday 's slide in a relatively calm session that did n't provide much direction for other markets .
also closed sharply lower shares across europe , particularly in frankfurt , although recovered london and a few other markets some ground after began stocks to rebound in new york .
had other asian and pacific markets sharper losses than tokyo , but stopped short of precipitating another market crash the selling wave .
was all eyes on tokyo at the opening because was it the first major market to trade since friday 's 190.58-point plunge on wall street .
but rather than set the tone for other markets , chose japan 's major institutional investors to remain on the sidelines .
despite the sudden reappearance of stock-market turbulence , still , said managers of japanese investment funds was n't planning they to unload u.s. or european equities .
said a fund manager at taisho life insurance co `` did n't trade much we today , as is our policy now to wait and see , '' .
`` would like we to wait and see until go around trading through europe and new york '' .
appeared the institutions confident that would step in japanese regulators to ensure orderly trading if necessary , and there was considerable speculation during the day that was working the finance ministry to do just that behind the scenes .
but in the absence of panicky trading , was never overtly felt its presence .
at the close , stood down 647.33 points , or 1.8 % the nikkei average of 225 stocks at 34468.69 , .
sank the broader tokyo stock price index 45.66 , or 1.7 % , to 2600.88 .
was the day 's decline generally in line with analysts ' weekend predictions .
swamped 941-105 declining issues advancers , .
but was volume thin at 526.2 million shares , compared with 574.7 million friday .
opened sharply lower , the market with the nikkei average down nearly 600 after 20 minutes .
brought back a midmorning rebound it to show a gain of about 200 at the end of the morning session , but failed the rally in the afternoon , and closed the market near the day 's low .
also posted the smaller stocks in the tokyo market 's second section their biggest decline of the year .
fell the tokyo stock exchange index for the second section 100.96 , or 2.7 % , to 3655.40 .
have flocked many investors , trying to outperform the market 's major indexes , to these small issues in recent weeks .
expressed japanese investors and traders relief that did n't fall more sharply the tokyo market .
but did bear its performance some resemblance to events of two years ago , during the october 1987 global stock market crash .
on oct. 16 , 1987 -- the friday before the black monday crash -- dropped the new york market 4.6 % , and followed tokyo on monday with a 2.4 % drop .
this time , was followed wall street 's plunge of 6.9 % friday by yesterday 's 1.8 % loss in tokyo .
two years ago , came tokyo 's biggest fall the day after new york 's 22.6 % black monday plunge , when fell the nikkei average 14.9 % .
yesterday thus , was looking ahead nervously market participants to wall street 's opening .
but in new york yesterday , surged the dow jones industrial average 88.12 to close at 2657.38 on heavy volume of 416,290,000 shares , although still outnumbered declining issues advancing ones on the broad market .
called nobuto yasuda , a director at yamaichi investment trust & management co. , yesterday 's session `` a good scenario '' for japan .
said he `` now is looking we for the time to place buy orders , '' .
`` for us institutional investors , have come the chance for buying '' .
also was isao ushikubo , general manager of the investment research department at toyo trust & banking co. , optimistic .
described he friday 's plunge in the u.s. as a `` fleeting '' event resulting in part from excessive merger and acquisition activity .
said he `` unless there is a panic , is this the best time to buy , as was the case two years ago , '' .
`` was dashed those shares which had posted gains on m&a speculation with cold water , but as far as is concerned major stocks , there is n't much impact '' .
was other fund managers similarly sanguine .
said masato murakami , chief portfolio manager in the pension fund management department at yasuda trust & banking co `` have we no plans to adjust our asset allocation in foreign equities , '' .
said he was friday 's wall street decline `` well within the range of volatility '' that for plan yasuda trust when chart it its overseas investment strategy .
among other asian and pacific markets , had malaysia and singapore the biggest losses , with falling the kuala lumpur composite index in malaysia 11.5 % and singapore 's straits times industrial index down 10 % .
declined major indexes more than 8 % in australia and new zealand and 6.5 % in hong kong .
escaped bangkok , manila , seoul , taipei and jakarta with slightly smaller losses .
said brokers and fund managers was reacting the region 's markets to friday 's wall street plunge even though was that decline due to local factors such as failed corporate buy-outs and a deteriorating junk-bond market .
said william au yeung , an account executive for drexel burnham lambert ( hk ) ltd. in hong kong `` be it pure psychology , '' .
`` is n't so geared markets in this region to leveraged buy-outs , and generally is their economies in good shape , but there be no doubt that is still following asia america 's lead '' .
said several analysts had malaysia and singapore the biggest losses because is they relatively open to rapid cash flows .
is hong kong the region 's next most open market , but have been staying away many foreign investors from it since plunged it in june amid political turmoil in china .
said elizabeth hambrecht , a regional analyst with baring securities ( hong kong ) ltd `` took singapore the hit when want people to get out , because tend they to go where is the liquidity , '' .
pointed out she that even after monday 's 10 % decline , is up 24 % the straits times index this year , so generally did so profitably investors who bailed out .
yesterday similarly , ended kuala lumpur 's composite index 27.5 % above its 1988 close .
in hong kong , fell the hang seng index 180.60 to finish at 2601.70 .
was trading heavy at about one billion shares , compared with 473.9 million friday .
but was the session orderly , in contrast to the market 's four-day closure after the 1987 crash .
said richard chenevix-trench , a director at hong kong-based baring international fund managers ltd. , probably have n't hit yet the market bottom but is close .
said he `` if do n't collapse new york , see i maybe another 5 % on the downside , not counting the risk of bad news out of china , '' .
in australia , closed down 8.1 % , sydney 's all ordinaries index at 1601.5 , its biggest drop since october 1987 .
but rose only volume to 162 million shares from 143 million friday .
described nestor hinzack , an analyst at brokerage firm burdett , buckeridge & young ltd. , the market 's performance as `` sheep-like '' as fled investors to bluechip australian stocks and shunned entrepreneurial companies perceived they as having built any takeover premium into the price .
ended down 70.5 , or 3.2 % london 's financial times-stock exchange 100-share index , the most closely watched market barometer , at its intraday high of 2163.4 , .
at its low , before shortly opened wall street , was off more than 130 points it .
closed 79.3 points lower the financial times 30-share index at 1738.7 .
more than doubled volume to 959.3 million shares from 457.7 million friday .
tumbled prices on the frankfurt stock exchange in heavy trading .
was the decline in the german stock index of 203.56 points , or 12.8 % , to 1385.72 the frankfurt market 's steepest fall ever .
dumped retail investors holdings on a massive scale , pushing down as much as 20 % some blue-chip shares .
cited analysts memories of two years ago , when held many small investors on to their shares after the october crash but continued the west german market to decline steeply for the next three months .
to make them directly comparable , is based each index on equaling the close of 1969 100 .
is the percentage change since year-end .
is reported frank lloyd wright to have said once that if tipped you the world on its side , would end up everything loose in california .
have always thought we that underestimated mr. wright california 's vitality , but maybe is starting the state 's la-la factions to overwhelm the forces that made it such a significant place .
if passed by the voters , would phase out the recently announced initiative major pesticides , reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40 % , ban new offshore drilling , ban chemicals thought to deplete the ozone layer , and create a new state environmental officer armed with a $ 40 million budget to sue any firm or agency think he is being too dirty .
is based largely the initiative on the wish-lists of the green lobby : the sierra club , the league of conservation voters , the natural resources defense council , the national toxics campaign and the citizens for a better environment .
interestingly , is having the environmental defense fund nothing to do with this one .
would pay not only californians but all americans if passed this thing .
bar the initiative the sale of any crops in california that do n't meet the initiative 's standards .
would have kansas wheat farmers and florida fruit growers to adjust or give up the california market .
in other words , is presuming california to take control of the nation 's farm policy .
as usual is disconnected the green lobby 's proposal from scientific reality .
would mandate the proposed initiative a reduction of carbon dioxide of 40 % .
if even buys one into the whole greenhouse theory , is it inconceivable that could have reductions in a single state any impact on what is billed as a global problem .
under these circumstances is the first place to look at the ways in which will benefit the sponsors themselves .
here is the key the ambition of state attorney general john van de kamp .
be running he for governor .
is mr. van de kamp the one who collected the plans from the various radical environmental groups and cobbled them into a single unwieldy initiative to be placed on the ballot for election on nov. 6 , 1990 .
be that also the day of the gubernatorial election .
seem the initiative to have been crafted to include all the hot issues that set off the wealthy hollywood weepers who donate money .
and allow it mr. van de kamp to get around campaign spending limits .
can spend he the legal maximum for his campaign ; is all the spending for the van de kamp initiative ( on which there is no limits ) gravy .
is being labeled this initiative the big green , but maybe should be called it the big greenback .
( is playing too , the republican candidate , sen. pete wilson , the initiative fundraising game sponsoring his own crime initiative ) .
while is it possible that will be ruled the big green initiative unconstitutional , is it of course conceivable that in modern california could slide through it .
is this the state that recently passed the prop. 65 anti-toxic initiative .
if ever do become this new proposal law , will benefit directly the green lobby .
create the initiative a free floating state environmental officer to sue companies or government agencies that do things do n't like he .
mean that no longer would have the nrdc and such groups to spend as much money on litigation ; would bear taxpayers the cost .
may be hoping mr. van de kamp and his allies that is the environment such a mom and apple-pie issue among certain segments of california 's population now that can pass almost any collection of anti-scientific , anti-pocketbook nonsense under its rubric .
of course is the state 's liberals not yet a nation unto themselves .
for example , may decide george bush , that do n't want he to be the president who lost control of interstate commerce to an attorney general from california .
and may yet start some other segments of california 's political and media culture to point out that would impose the initiative significant costs on the state 's less affluent citizens in the form of higher food prices and lost jobs .
will help this grandiose initiative define california itself for the future either as a state still tethered to economic and scientific reality , or as one being led to wherever want its la-la activists to take it .
first , there was a death watch .
spurred by waves of large-scale buying in blue-chip stocks , rallied the dow jones industrial average yesterday and erased about a half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , gaining 88.12 to 2657.38 .
was it the fourth-biggest advance for the average of 30 blue chips , on frenetic new york stock exchange volume of 416,290,000 shares -- the highest since the days after the 1987 crash .
while cheered the advance investors who feared would occur a 1987-style crash yesterday , was it strictly a big-stock rally fed by huge buying by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
a troubling sign : outnumbered 975 to 749 , declining stocks on the big board advancers , and suffered the over-the-counter market that include many smaller stocks aftershocks of friday 's late big board plunge .
closed down 6.31 to 460.98 the nasdaq otc index .
in a divergence in two of the market 's most important indicators , meanwhile , tumbled the dow industrials ' sister average , the 20-stock dow jones transportation average , 102.06 to 1304.23 -- its second-worst decline next to the 164.78-point fall during the 1987 crash .
plunged transports on takeover disappointments in two airline stocks , ual and amr , which each fell more than 20 % when reopened they for trading yesterday after being suspended friday afternoon .
fell ual , the takeover stock at the center of friday 's 190.58-point market plunge , 56 7/8 to 222 7/8 on nearly 2.3 million shares .
said arthur cashin jr. , a veteran painewebber inc. trader at the big board overall , `` is this a pleasant rally but be it very selective , '' .
`` a little was concerned everyone about the general narrowness of the rally and failure of the otc market to get into plus territory .
be it just a strange feeling .
do n't think i left anyone the place whistling dixie '' .
gave at least for now , the rally credence , to the pre-trading declaration of big board chairman john j. phelan jr. that was friday 's market debacle `` an abnormal condition , and not a disaster '' .
but to traders , looked it like disaster on the 9:30 a.m. opening bell .
opened down 1.64 the dow jones industrial average shortly after 9:30 .
at 9:45 , opened down 2 3/4 to 117 procter & gamble -- one of the most important dow bellwethers of late -- .
dropped the dow to a quick 27-point loss , and to many traders looked it as if was headed stocks for yet another big tumble .
opened more stocks over the ensuing half hour , as groped the 49 big board specialist firms in charge of keeping the market orderly to find buy orders from major brokerage firms to match the selling flood .
to make matters worse , then , kicked in , computerized sell programs hammering stocks into steeper losses .
there was heavy stock-index arbitrage , as sold traders big baskets of stock and bought stock-index futures to profit from the price discrepancies between the two markets .
was this a hangover from friday , when had closed standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures at a sharp discount to stocks .
dashed the onslaught of the program selling any hopes that would hold off some of the big program trading firms until stabilized the market .
did n't they .
accelerated the dow its slide , losing 63.52 in the first 40 minutes of trading .
with program traders seemingly in charge , backed away buyers from the market and watched fall stocks .
at 10:15 then suddenly started the dow to rebound , and when shot upward it did so even faster than the early-morning fall it .
and this time , was it n't just the program traders who were responsible .
had pushed all the selling stocks to such cheap values that started big investment banks and major money management firms buying heavily stocks .
was the program traders in there , too , of course .
but according to one trader , `` did n't look the programmers as dominant on the upside as on the downside because there was also a lot of bargain-hunting by institutions -lcb- -rcb- '' .
said roland m. machold , director of the new jersey division of investment , which oversee $ 29 billion in investments , `` was the first thing did we to double our orders yesterday morning '' .
`` with the market down like this , 'll probably take we another $ 50 million and put it in the market '' .
caught trading in walt disney co. particularly traders ' eyes .
according to big board officials , had disney one of the biggest sell-order imbalances on friday ; was it one of the seven stocks that could n't finish trading that day .
opened late down 8 1/2 the stock at 114 1/2 , .
said traders but then shot upward 7 1/2 it as stepped in goldman , sachs & co. and bought , .
however , said disney specialist robert fagenson `` would be surprised i if represented goldman 4 % of the opening volume '' : .
around wall street , was relieved trading desks that could at least play they the market yesterday , in contrast to friday 's gridlock .
at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette inc. , said head equity trader dudley eppel `` think i was the opening constructive : .
was it orderly .
put together we some orders .
not like friday where just took apart they the market -lcb- -rcb- . ''
still , had n't yet crossed the market into positive territory , and was traders glum .
but in another dramatic burst , tacked the dow on 42 points in five minutes , and at 10:25 showed the index a gain of 5.74 .
on the big board floor and on trading desks , yelped traders their approval .
grinned griffith peck , a trader in shearson lehman hutton inc. 's otc department `` tell i you , act this market healthy '' : .
around him , seemed scores of traders to get a burst of energy ; broke out their boss bottles of perrier water to cool off them .
among big board specialists , was the cry `` pull your offers '' -- meaning that soon expected specialists to get higher prices for their shares .
said one big board specialist `` was it bedlam on the upside , '' .
but was making not everybody money .
was the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , heavy after was halted the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options friday .
had many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract bullish positions friday , and when came the shutdown was frozen they with huge losses .
over the weekend , told clearing firms the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning .
said one chicago-based options trader `` was absolutely killed they , slaughtered , '' .
said some traders that did n't lead the closely watched major market index , mimic whose 20 stocks the dow industrials , yesterday 's big rally .
said james gallagher , a partner at specialist fowler & rosenau , `` is `` the difference between today and two years ago -- `` terrible tuesday , '' oct. 20 , 1987 -- '' that then needed we a savior to go into the major market index , spend $ 2 million and get started the program rally , .
this time -lcb- -rcb- saw institutions coming the programs and backed away and backed away .
when was the market at a technical level to buy , then came in they with a vengeance '' .
however , according to one analyst , just before the turnaround was the timing of major market index futures buying similar to that of terrible tuesday .
said donald selkin , head of stock-index futures research at prudential-bache securities inc `` was pulling higher , futures the stock market '' .
although struggled the big board 's specialist firms through another highly volatile trading session , yesterday was their performance better than during friday 's late-afternoon chaos , according to traders and brokers who work with them .
was criticized specialists for their inability to maintain orderly markets during the friday plunge .
but yesterday , even with halts in such major blue-chip stocks as merck , `` expected we the halts ( ) and was it n't too bad , '' said donaldson 's mr. eppel , who had been critical of the specialists ' performance on friday .
according to a big board official , while opened late , many stocks there was subsequent trading halts in only three issues -- amr , merck and valero energy .
is merck one of the most important stocks in the major market index .
have been spared no sector of the market during the past two days ' gyrations .
from the dow industrials ' high on oct. 9 through friday 's plunge , yet have been turned in relatively good performances by real-estate , utilities , precious metals and life insurance stocks .
and yesterday , was the top performing industry group oil field equipment issues .
for example , jumped halliburton 3 1/4 to 38 , rose schlumberger 2 1/2 to 43 1/4 and rose baker hughes 1 1/8 to 22 .
because of the ual and amr tumbles , was airlines the weakest sector of the market yesterday .
was philip morris the big board 's most active issue , rising 2 1/4 to 43 1/4 on nearly eight million shares .
among other major issues , closed up 2 coca-cola co. at 66 3/4 on 1.7 million shares and rose american telephone & telegraph 3 1/4 to 43 on nearly 7.8 million shares .
finished up 1 , shares of international business machines , which reported earnings yesterday , at 103 , after slipping below 100 during friday 's session for the first time in five years .
rose shares of three brokerage firms after reported they earnings .
added merrill lynch 1 3/4 to 28 , rose painewebber 3/4 to 18 1/2 and rose bear stearns 3/8 to 14 1/4 .
climbed federal national mortgage association , a recently hot stock , 4 to 124 on nearly 1.6 million shares .
at a news conference after the close of trading yesterday , praised the big board 's mr. phelan and other exchange officials the performance of their computers and personnel .
said mr. phelan that was program trading strategies n't responsible for triggering friday 's decline despite a jump in the use of the computer-driven strategies in recent months .
said he were some 24 million of the more than 100 million shares traded in the final 90 minutes of friday 's session , when was concentrated the plunge in stock prices , program-related , .
make up program trades 10 % of the exchange 's volume on an average day , but said mr. phelan despite the increase friday , was it `` certainly not something would say you precipitated the market decline , '' .
expressed mr. phelan relief that rebounded the market yesterday .
said he `` every time get we this kind of reaction , obviously , be going it to make everybody nervous , including me , '' .
said he that had exchange officials conversations with wall street firms throughout the weekend and that `` behaved very , very responsibly all the participants today '' .
meanwhile , praised peter dapuzzo , shearson 's head of retail equity trading , institutional investors in the otc market , who were heavy buyers of the nasdaq 's biggest technology issues yesterday amid a flood of selling by other investors .
said mr. dapuzzo `` ca n't be criticized the institutions for their behavior , '' in an interview .
`` was it the opposite of what happened on oct. 19 .
used they their judgment .
instead , bought they which kept the market orderly on weakness and sold into the strength , .
maybe learned they from experience '' .
said mr. phelan was the performance of specialists during friday 's plunge admirable , because out of 1,640 big board common stocks traded during the day were closed only seven and were n't reopened before the close .
said mr. phelan `` did they an excellent job , '' of the specialists .
on friday had complained wall street traders about the trading suspensions .
contributed james a. white and sonja steptoe to this article .
joined west germany 's green party its ideological soulmates jeremy rifkin and the christic institute in the legal battle to ground the atlantis shuttle and its plutonium-powered galileo probe to jupiter .
wanted the anti-defense greens a washington federal appeals court to block long enough for to ask them the world court `` to order a permanent cancellation of the $ 1.5 billion flight '' today 's scheduled liftoff .
yesterday refused a three-judge appeals panel to comply , though went liberal judge pat wald to deny that was this a `` frivolous '' case out of her way .
of course was it .
should now sue nasa for fines against all three politico-plaintiffs , foreign and domestic , for bringing this mischievous case .
approved a house-senate conference a permanent smoking ban on all domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on all flights of six hours or less to alaska and hawaii .
would cover the restrictions all but a small percentage of domestic air traffic , and represent a major expansion of the current smoking ban on flights of two hours or less .
appear the exemption allowed on longer flights to alaska and hawaii to be largely a face-saving concession for the traditionally powerful tobacco industry , which have found increasingly isolated itself in the face of public pressure in recent years .
by a 6-4 margin , initially rejected house negotiators a senate provision covering all domestic flights last night .
but was soon agreed the six-hour compromise to in subsequent discussions .
as a practical matter , would be covered flights from the west coast to hawaii as is they under the time limit , but would exempt the language longer routes beginning , for example , in chicago or on the east coast .
within the senate , have had the ban aggressive support from sen. frank lautenberg ( d. , n.j. ) , who have used his position as a senate appropriations subcommittee chairman to garner votes for the initiative .
is attached the measure to the more than $ 26 billion fiscal 1990 transportation bill within mr. lautenberg 's jurisdiction , and is laced the final compromise with more than $ 205 million in road projects earmarked by members as well as funds sought by major airports , including denver .
from the outset , the tobacco industry has been uncertain as to to follow what strategy .
but retain the industry support in the house leadership through the influence of grower states , such as north carolina .
owe majority whip william gray a political debt to southern agriculture lawmakers for his rise in the house , and used the philadelphia democrat his position in the conference to salvage the exemption from a total ban .
although have attracted the smoking provision the most public interest , was the underlying bill the subject of behind-the-scenes lobbying because of its impact on air transportation and the more mundane , but politically important , projects of members .
in a stark lesson in the power of the appropriations committees , deliberately killed the house a handful of projects backed by lawmakers in florida , illinois and pennsylvania who had voted against the panel leadership on the house floor .
said rep. william lehman ( d. , fla. ) , head of the house conferees `` can vote anybody as want they , '' .
within the federal aviation administration , promise the final bill to increase spending for facilities and equipment by more than 20 % from last year , and would rise total operations to $ 3.84 billion -- a 12 % boost .
include the facilities account $ 40 million for denver 's ambitious new airport , and created the competition for these funds shifting alliances between urban lawmakers representing established airports in philadelphia and michigan and the major carriers to denver , united and continental .
leery of the costs -- and , say critics , competition -- have sought the airlines to gain leverage over the city of denver .
was texas air corp. , which own continental , and the air transport association prominent in the lobbying .
sought the industry to impose conditions that would have delayed funds for the project until had agreed denver and the airlines to leases for 50 % of the gates .
but was rejected this in favor of much looser language directing the transportation department to review the costs of the first phase , expected to cost about $ 2 billion .
though smaller in total dollars , agreed the conference to preserve an estimated $ 30.6 million in controversial subsidies to carriers serving rural or isolated airports .
is the sum more than double what had approved the house for the program , but would be cut the list of qualified airports by 22 under new distance requirements and limits on the level of subsidy .
previously cut congress six airports this year .
is the impact of the changes to eliminate many of the most excessive cases where have been paying the government more than $ 200 for each passenger in subsidies .
among rail and highway accounts , provide the agreement $ 615 million for amtrak , including $ 85 million for capital improvements .
and would be effectively frozen federal-formula grants for mass transit at $ 1.625 billion , or $ 20 million more than last fiscal year .
enjoying several blockbuster movie hits including `` batman , '' reported los angeles-based guber-peters entertainment co. earnings for the first quarter ended aug. 31 of $ 5.8 million , or 50 cents a share , compared with a year-earlier loss .
is seeking sony corp. , which has offered to acquire the movie-production company , to free its top executives , peter guber and jon peters , from an exclusive agreement with time warner inc. 's warner communications inc. so can run they columbia pictures entertainment inc .
two weeks ago agreed sony to acquire columbia for $ 3.4 billion , or $ 27 a share .
sued warner sony and guber-peters late last week ; have countersued sony and guber-peters charging warner with attempting to interfere in sony 's acquisition of the two companies , .
compared guber-peters 's net income in the latest quarter with a net loss of $ 6.9 million , or 62 cents a share , in the year-earlier period .
said the company rose revenue 138 % , to $ 10.9 million from $ 4.6 million , reflecting the success of its movies `` gorillas in the mist '' and `` rainman , '' as well as the box-office smash `` batman .
said a group including jon m. huntsman of salt lake city , boosted it its stake in aristech chemical corp. to 8.36 % of the the common shares outstanding .
as previously reported , proposed huntsman holdings corp. , owned by jon m. huntsman and other members of his family , that acquire banstar corp. , an affiliate of huntsman holdings , aristech in a friendly transaction for $ 25-a-share in cash , or $ 817.5 million .
in a filing with the securities and exchange commission , said the huntsman group control it 2,720,675 aristech common shares , including 306,000 shares bought from aug. 21 to oct. 13 for $ 20 to $ 20.875 per share .
declined officials at aristech , based in pittsburgh , comment .
congress has been critical of the bush administration for not sending enough aid to poland , so is getting it ready to send its own version of a care package .
last month , voted the senate to send a delegation of congressional staffers to poland to assist its legislature , the sejm , in democratic procedures .
call senator pete domenici this effort `` the first gift of democracy . ''
might do better the poles to view it as a trojan horse .
is it the vast shadow government of 15,000 congressional staffers helps that create such legislative atrocities as the 1,376 page , 13-pound reconciliation bill that claimed to be the budget of the united states .
maybe after explain the staffers their work to the poles , they 'd be willing to come back and do the same for the american people .
reported waterford wedgwood plc , a financially troubled irish maker of fine crystal and wedgwood china , that widened its pretax loss for the first six months to 10.6 million irish punts ( $ 14.9 million ) from 5.8 million irish punts a year earlier .
was the results for the half worse than market expectations , which suggested an interim loss of around 10 million irish punts .
in a sharply weaker london market yesterday , was waterford shares down 15 pence at 50 pence ( 79 cents ) .
reported the company a loss after taxation and minority interests of 14 million irish punts , compared with a loss of 9.3 million irish punts for the year-earlier period .
there was n't any extraordinary items .
rose sales for the total group 27 % to 168.1 million irish punts compared with 132.6 million irish punts a year ago .
have decided waterford against paying an interim dividend .
said waterford is expected the appointment of a new management team and the signing of a comprehensive labor agreement to enhance the company 's long-term prospects .
was reversed the sudden `` flight to quality '' that triggered friday 's explosive bond-market rally yesterday in a `` flight from quality '' rout .
reflected the setback , in which plummeted treasury bond prices , a rebound in the stock market and profit-taking .
`` was it a pretty wild day .
was closely tied our markets to the stock market , '' said joel kazis , manager of trading at smith barney , harris upham & co .
`` was no longer needed friday 's flight to quality once found the stock market its legs , '' said he .
had expected some fixed-income investors a further drop in stock prices after the nearly 200-point drop in the dow jones industrial average on friday .
but when began stocks to climb instead , declined prices of treasury bonds .
contributing was dispatches by several investment firms advising clients to boost their stock holdings and reduce the size of their cash or bond portfolios to the selling pressure .
among the firms was merrill lynch & co. and dean witter reynolds inc .
seemed the bond market to ignore evidence that eased slightly the federal reserve credit conditions by allowing the federal funds rate to drift as low as 8 1/2 % .
slid down from its perceived target level of about 9 % the closely watched rate on federal funds , or overnight loans between banks , to about 8 3/4 % last week , .
is considered the rate an early signal of changes in fed policy .
said traders did n't stir yesterday 's modest easing much enthusiasm because had been widely expected it .
in fact , contend some economists that started the latest easing last week .
note others that was disappointed some investors because had expected they a more aggressive easing .
ended the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond , about 1 3/4 points lower , or down about $ 17.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount .
was the reversal even more evident among shorter-term treasury securities .
after plummeted treasury bill rates as much as 0.70 percentage point on friday , gave back they three-fourths of that amount yesterday .
for example , was quoted the bond-equivalent yield on three-month treasury bills , late yesterday at 7.72 % , compared with 7.16 % friday .
also fell investment-grade corporate bonds , mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds .
but rebounded prices of junk bonds , which was battered friday in near standstill trading , to post small gains after a volatile trading session .
opened junk bonds as much as four points lower but staged a modest comeback as firmed stock prices .
said some traders was helped the high-yield market by active institutional buying .
in particular , said they , began firms such as first boston corp. and drexel burnham lambert inc. making early in the session a market in junk issues when hit prices severely depressed levels .
`` think i improved the willingness of securities companies to make markets for high-yield issues the sentiment for junk bonds , '' said john lonski , an economist at moody 's investors service inc .
was u.s. treasury bonds higher in overnight trading in japan , which opened at about 7:30 p.m. edt .
for example rose the benchmark 30-year bond , one point in early japanese trading in reaction to a quick 600-point drop in the tokyo stock market .
but as rebounded japanese stocks , retreated treasurys and ended just modestly higher .
was fully staffed many u.s. trading operations , wanting to keep a watchful eye on japanese trading as an indication of where would begin u.s. trading , during the tokyo trading session .
`` was most of the action during the night session , '' said michael moore , trading manager at continental bank .
said jay goldinger , who often trades overnight for capital insight inc. , beverly hills , calif. , was trading in tokyo `` very active '' but highly volatile .
`` went down 3/4 point we in 10 minutes right before lunch , after lunch then went up 3/4 point we in 12 minutes , '' said he .
in tokyo , is halted trading during lunchtime .
turned out tokyo 's market to be a bad bellwether for u.s. trading .
when opened here , the market fell bonds prices as regained the stock market strength .
was the bond market 's focus on stock activity so strong yesterday that overshadowed it today 's slate of economic data , which include the government 's report on august u.s. merchandise trade and september industrial production .
is expected industrial production to have declined 0.2 % , according to a consensus of economists surveyed by dow jones capital markets report .
is expected the august trade deficit to have widened to $ 9.1 billion from $ 7.58 billion in july .
said one new york trader , is a widening of that magnitude , `` not a favorable number ... .
could do it damage to us '' .
meanwhile , is expected agency supply to weigh heavily on the market today when price the federal home loan bank a $ 2.3 billion offering of one-year , three-year , five-year and 10-year maturities .
tomorrow , will provide the resolution funding corp. details of its first bond issue , which is expected to total between $ 4 billion and $ 6 billion and carry a maturity greater than 20 years .
is resolution funding a division of resolution trust corp. , the new federal agency created to bail out the nation 's troubled thrifts .
and this week plan the tennessee valley authority to price a $ 3 billion offering , its first public debt borrowing in 15 years .
said the new york trader `` there 's lots of supply , '' .
`` have we coming a couple or three tough weeks '' .
tumbled prices of treasury bonds in moderate to active trading .
was quoted late the benchmark 30-year treasury bond at a price of 101 19/32 , compared with a closing price of 103 12/32 friday .
rose the yield on the benchmark issue to 7.97 % from 7.82 % .
was quoted late the latest 10-year notes at 100 3/32 for a yield of 7.97 % , compared with 101 9/32 to yield 7.84 % .
fell short-term interest rates yesterday at the government 's weekly treasury bill auction .
was the average discount rate on new three-month treasury bills 7.37 % , the lowest since the average of 7.36 % at the auction on oct. 17 , 1988 .
was the average discount rate 7.42 % on new six-month bills , the lowest since the average of 7.35 % at the auction on july 31 , 1989 .
is determined rates by the difference between the purchase price and face value .
thus , narrow higher bidding the investor 's return while widen lower bidding it .
is calculated the percentage rates on a 360-day year , while is based the coupon-equivalent yield on a 365-day year .
is dated both issues oct. 19 .
mature the 13-week bills jan. 18 , 1990 , and mature the 26-week bills april 19 , 1990 .
ended investment-grade corporate bonds one to 1 1/2 point lower .
there was no new issues .
surged foreign bonds as weakened the dollar against most major currencies .
among benchmark issues : -- ended up 1.17 point japan 's no. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 on brokers screens at 96.15 , .
was the yield 5.245 % .
-- ended up 0.91 point west germany 's 6 3/4 % issue due june 1999 to yield 6.99 % at 98.30 , .
-- ended 1 1/8 higher britain 's 11 3/4 % bond due 2003/2007 to yield 10.12 % , at 111 19/32 while rose the 11 3/4 % notes due 1991 21/32 to 98 26/32 to yield 12.74 % .
gave up mortgage securities most of friday 's gains as ended 24/32 to 30/32 point lower active issues .
said dealers was morning activity hectic as dropped prices in response to gains in the stock market and losses in treasury securities , but slowed trading to moderate levels in the afternoon .
was quoted down 30/32 from friday government national mortgage association 9 % securities for november delivery late yesterday at 98 4/32 , ; was 9 1/2 % securities down 27/32 at 100 5/32 ; and was 10 % securities at 102 2/32 , off 24/32 .
was federal home loan mortgage corp. 9 % securities at 97 1/4 , down 3/4 .
on friday , gained as much as 1 5/32 mortgage issues .
late yesterday was yielding ginnie mae 9 % securities 9.39 % to a 12-year average life assumption , as narrowed the spread above the treasury 10-year note 0.01 percentage point to 1.42 .
said traders there was some busy dealings in freddie mac and federal national mortgage association securities because moved underwriters from last week 's heavy slate of real estate mortgage investment conduit issues to gather collateral for new deals .
offsetting was continued heavy sales by mortgage originators , which is producing increased amounts of fixed-rate mortgage-backed issues with lower rates the remic-related purchases .
there was no new-issue activity in the derivative market .
drove 1/4 to 3/4 point lower rebounding stocks and weaker treasury prices municipal bonds in late dealings .
left the session losses municipal dollar bonds close to where was they before prompted the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average friday a capital markets rally .
was trading hectic during the morning , with trying players to gauge whether would continue equities friday 's free fall or stabilize after a brief spot of weakness .
started tax-exempts the session flat to a touch higher on anticipation of further stock market erosion , but rapidly turned south bond prices as became it more clear that was a repeat of the october 1987 crash n't at hand .
dominated professionals municipal trading throughout the session .
said traders seemed retail investors to be hugging the sidelines until is wrung out a measure of volatility of the market .
was new jersey turnpike authority 's 7.20 % issue of 2018 off 3/4 at 98 1/2 bid , yielding up 0.07 percentage point from late friday 7.32 % , .
was florida board of education 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2023 5/8 point weaker at 99 1/2 bid .
was the 7 1/8 % issue of triborough bridge and tunnel authority of new york , due 2019 , off 5/8 at 98 1/8 bid .
and was fairfax county , va. , water authority 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2027 down 3/4 at 99 7/8 bid .
was up about 0.05 percentage point serial bond yields .
said bma corp. , kansas city , mo. , be weighing it `` strategic alternatives , '' for its business men 's assurance co. unit , and is contacting possible buyers of the life and health insurance operation .
said a bma spokesman have made `` runaway medical costs '' health insurance `` a significant challenge , '' and also have been pinched margins by changes in the mix of life-insurance products now demand consumers .
said the spokesman represented the business men 's assurance unit about $ 288 million of the company 's $ 488 million in 1988 revenue , and was the unit 's operating income about $ 10 million , .
have been authorized bma 's investment banker , alex . brown & sons inc. , to contact possible buyers for the unit .
said laidlaw transportation ltd. raised it its stake in adt ltd. of bermuda to 29.4 % from 28 % .
declined a spokesman for laidlaw to disclose the price paid the toronto transportation and waste services concern for the additional shares , which said he were acquired `` over the last couple of weeks . ''
said the spokesman would n't increase laidlaw because of british takeover regulations that require a company acquiring more than 30 % to extend an offer to the rest of the company 's shareholders its stake in adt beyond 30 % `` without a great deal of thought '' .
trade adt , a security services and auctions company , on london 's stock exchange .
is laidlaw 47%-controlled by canadian pacific ltd. , a montreal transportation , resources and industrial holding concern .
posted nintendo co. , a japanese maker of video games , electronic information systems and playing cards , a 23 % unconsolidated surge in pretax profit to 61.41 billion yen ( $ 429 million ) from 50 billion yen ( $ 349.9 million ) for the fiscal year ended aug. 31 .
surged sales 40 % to 250.17 billion yen from 178.61 billion .
rose net income 11 % to 29.62 billion yen from 26.68 billion .
without detailing specific product breakdowns , credited nintendo its bullish upsurge in sales -- including advanced computer games and television entertainment systems -- to surging `` leisure-oriented '' sales in foreign markets .
for instance , totaled up from 106.06 billion in the previous fiscal year export sales for leisure items alone , 184.74 billion yen in the 12 months , .
however , was domestic leisure sales , lower .
said hertz corp. of park ridge , n.j. , retained it merrill lynch capital markets to sell its hertz equipment rental corp. unit .
`` there is no pressing need to sell the unit , but is doing we it so can concentrate we on our core business , renting automobiles in the u.s. and abroad , '' said william slider , hertz 's executive vice president .
`` is only going we to sell at the right price '' .
had hertz equipment operating profit before depreciation of $ 90 million on revenue of $ 150 million in 1988 .
had the closely held hertz corp. annual revenue of close to $ 2 billion in 1988 , of which was contributed $ 1.7 billion by its hertz rent a car operations world-wide .
is hertz equipment a major supplier of rental equipment in the u.s. , france , spain and the u.k .
supply it commercial and industrial equipment including earth-moving , aerial , compaction and electrical equipment , compressors , cranes , forklifts and trucks .
reported interspec inc. a net loss of $ 2.4 million for the fiscal third quarter ended aug. 31 .
said it resulted the loss from startup and introduction costs related to a new medical ultrasound equipment system .
in the year-earlier quarter , reported the company net income of $ 955,000 , or 15 cents a share .
reported the manufacturer of ultrasound diagnostic systems , based in ambler , pa. , a nine-month net loss of $ 2.43 million compared with net income of $ 2.71 million , or 44 cents a share , for the nine-month period a year earlier .
in over-the-counter trading , fell interspec 37.5 cents to $ 4.25 .
told richard p. simmons , chairman and chief executive officer , expect allegheny ludlum corp. to report third-quarter net of about $ 34 million , or $ 1.50 a share , down from $ 38.4 million , or $ 1.70 a share , a year earlier , institutional investors in new york .
said he fell sales for the pittsburgh-based producer of specialty steels and other materials to about $ 265 million in the third quarter from $ 320.5 million a year earlier , .
said he indicate the third-quarter estimate profit for the nine months of $ 4.65 a share , `` almost equal to the full-year 1988 earnings of $ 108.6 million , or $ 4.81 a share '' .
said mr. simmons reflect the third-quarter results continued improvements in productivity and operating margins .
said he will rise capital spending next year to about $ 45 million from about $ 35 million this year .
said u.s. banknote co. again extended it the expiration date of its $ 7-a-share tender offer for international banknote co. to nov. 15 .
said u.s. banknote is it in negotiations to sell `` certain facilities , '' which did n't name it , to a third party , and need it the extension to try to reach a definitive agreement on the sale .
said u.s. banknote believe it if completed , apparently would satisfy the sale , antitrust issues raised by the u.s. justice department about u.s. banknote 's offer to buy international banknote .
said u.s. banknote `` there can be no assurance '' would be concluded a sale agreement .
also said it would probably have the tender offer to be extended further to complete financing arrangements .
said u.s. banknote extended citibank the expiration date of its commitment for senior secured financing to nov. 15 .
have been extended the offer , made june 1 , several times .
offered closely held u.s. banknote the $ 7 a share , or $ 126 million , for as many as 14.9 million shares , or 78.6 % , of international banknote 's shares outstanding .
said u.s. banknote that as of oct. 13 , had been tendered 16.1 million shares , or about 84.3 % of the fully diluted shares outstanding , .
said gitano group inc. agreed it to buy 50 % of regatta sport ltd. , a closely held apparel maker , with the assumption of $ 3 million of contingent debt .
under the terms of the contract , have new york-based gitano the option to acquire the remaining 50 % of regatta , a maker of men 's and women 's clothes sold primarily in department stores , under certain conditions .
is now held that 50 % by clifford parker , regatta 's president and chief executive officer , who will continue to manage regatta 's operations under gitano .
said mr. parker in 1989 , will have regatta sales `` in excess of $ 10 million '' and will show a profit , .
said gitano , which make budget-priced apparel sold mainly through mass merchandisers like k mart and wal-mart , will enhance the regatta acquisition its strategy to expand into department stores .
this fall , began gitano manufacturing moderately priced clothes aimed at department stores under the gloria vanderbilt trademark , which recently acquired gitano .
said enron corp. , houston , will result the sale of preference units of its newly formed enron ngl partners l.p. master limited partnership subsidiary in an undetermined gain in the fourth quarter .
in the year-ago quarter , had the natural gas concern net income of $ 25.2 million , or 34 cents a share , on revenue of about $ 1.46 billion .
included those results a $ 2.7 million charge related to the retirement of debt .
in a related move , said enron increased it the number of the partnership 's units will offer it to 6,930,000 from 5,500,000 .
include the old and revised numbers both over-allotment provisions .
said enron will be priced each unit in the $ 19-to-$21 range and will represent about 80 % of the partnership equity .
is expected net proceeds from the offering to be close to $ 200 million .
is goldman , sachs & co. , and drexel burnham lambert inc. lead underwriters .
said arthur m. goldberg extended he his unsolicited tender offer of $ 32 a share tender offer , or $ 154.3 million , for di giorgio corp. to nov. 1 .
said dig acquisition corp. , the new jersey investor 's acquisition vehicle , that as of the close of business yesterday , had been tendered 560,839 shares .
including the stake already held dig , hold dig a total of about 25 % of di giorgio 's shares on a fully diluted basis .
was the offer , which also include common and preferred stock purchase rights , to expire last night at midnight .
is the new expiration date the date on which is dig 's financing commitments , which total about $ 240 million , to expire .
is dig a unit of dig holding corp. , a unit of rose partners l.p .
is mr. goldberg the sole general partner in rose partners .
in august , rejected di giorgio , a san francisco food products and building materials marketing and distribution company , mr. goldberg 's offer as inadequate .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed down $ 1.75 di giorgio at $ 31.50 a share , .
after years of fading into the background , is coming back two-tone photography .
feature trendy magazine advertisements stark black-and-white photos of pitching hollywood celebrities jeans , shoes and liquor .
report portrait studios accustomed to shooting only in color a rush to black-and-white portrait orders .
and is crowded black-and-white photography classes with students .
on seventh avenue , have been advancing designers the monochrome look with clothing collections done entirely in black and white .
and is enjoying classic black-and-white movies a comeback on videocassette tapes , spurred , in part , by the backlash against colorization of old films .
`` is swinging back the pendulum to black and white , '' say richard demoulin , the general manager of eastman kodak co. 's professional photography division .
until two years ago , had been declining steadily sales of black-and-white film since the 1960s .
but last year , buoyed by increased use in advertising and other commercial applications , increased sales 5 % , and is expected they to jump again at least that much this year .
is scrambling photographic companies to tap the resurging market , reviving some black-and-white product lines and developing new ones .
now account at kodak , which largely ignored the market for years , black-and-white film sales for nearly 15 % of the company 's $ 3 billion in film and paper sales annually , up from 10 % three years ago .
recently began the rochester , n.y. , photographic giant marketing t-max 3200 , one of the fastest and most sensitive monochrome films .
aimed at commercial photographers , can be used the film in very low light without sacrificing quality , say donald franz of photofinishing newsletter .
also trying is agfa corp. , a unit of bayer ag to snare a portion of the $ 2 billion-a-year industry .
recently signed agfa olympic gold medalist florence griffith-joyner to endorse a new line of black-and-white paper that 's geared to consumers and will compete directly with kodak 's papers .
slated for market by the end of the year , `` could have been introduced a long time ago the paper but was n't there then , the market '' say an agfa spokesman .
is the biggest beneficiary of the black-and-white revival likely to be international paper co. 's ilford division , known in the industry for its premium products .
this year is outpacing sales of ilford 's four varieties of black-and-white film growth in the overall market , although wo n't say the company by exactly how much .
`` hope we last the trend , '' say laurie dicara , ilford 's marketing communications director .
seem for baby boomers who grew up being photographed in color , black and white eye-catching and exotic .
`` have it an archival , almost nostalgic quality to it , '' say owen b. butler , the chairman of the applied photography department at rochester institute of technology .
`` can shift you out of reality with black and white , '' add he .
such features have been especially attractive to professional photographers and marketing executives , who have been steadily increasing their use of black and white in advertising .
consider gap inc. , feature whose latest ad campaign black-and-white shots of hollywood stars , artists and other well-known personalities modeling the retailer 's jeans and t-shirts .
say richard crisman , the account manager for the campaign , did n't intentionally choose gap black and white to distinguish its ads from the color spreads of competitors .
`` wanted we to highlight the individual , not the environment , '' say he , `` and '' allow black and white you to do better than color that .
won the campaign a cleo award as this year 's best ad by a specialty retailer .
is making even food products and automobiles , which have long depended on color , the switch .
`` feel companies will convey black and white a stronger statement , '' say marc l. hauser , a chicago photographer who is working on a black-and-white print ad for stouffer food corp. 's lean cuisine .
include other companies that is currently using two-tone ads american express co. and epson america inc .
have also latched portrait studios onto the trend .
using black and white , `` can make we look housewives like stars , '' say john perrin .
doubled his on-broadway photography studio in portland , ore. , its business last year and , say he , is booked solid for the next five .
say one customer , dayna brunsdon , spurned she a color portrait for black and white because `` be it more dramatic .
show i it to my friends , and say they all wow ` ' .
is it n't ordinary like color . ''
still , is n't plunking most consumers black-and-white film into their cameras to take family snapshots .
is one big obstacle that develop anymore few drugstores the film .
typically , must be mailed it to a handful of processors and may take to be processed and returned a week or more .
cost black-and-white film a little less than color film , consumers and cost processing the same .
but for photofinishers , is developing costs for black-and-white film higher .
is starting some companies to tackle that problem .
for example , recently introduced ilford , a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs .
is also increasing the company intent on wooing customers , its sponsorship of black-and-white photography classes .
similarly , is sponsoring agfa scores of photography contests at high schools and colleges , offering free black-and-white film and paper as prizes .
and is distributing kodak an instructional video to processors on how to develop more efficiently its monochrome film .
is introducing other companies related products .
introduced charles beseler co. , a leading maker of photographic enlargers , a complete darkroom starter kit targeted at teen-agers who want to process their own black-and-white photographs last month .
was introduced the kit , which have a suggested retail price of $ 250 and has already become a bestseller , after noticed retailers numerous requests from parents for children 's photography equipment .
`` seem it have waned computers as hobbies , '' say ian brightman , beseler 's chairman and chief executive officer .
but believe some industry observers is the resurgence of black and white only a fad .
cite they the emergence of still electronic photography , turning more newspapers to color on their pages and measurable improvements in the quality of color prints .
say mr. butler of the rochester institute `` have n't made black and white the same quantum leaps in technological development as color , '' .
`` today is the color print far superior to prints of 10 years ago .
but when selected popular photography , a leading magazine for photographers , 15 of the greatest photos ever made for its latest issue celebrating photography 's 150th anniversary , were all black and white .
say alfred debat of professional photographers of america `` be got it a classic spirit and carry over emotionally , '' .
`` be that the appeal .
said mcclatchy newspapers inc. led improvements in advertising and subscription revenue to a 21 % gain in third-quarter profit to $ 8.8 million , or 31 cents a share , from $ 7.2 million , or 25 cents a share .
rose sales more than 7 % to $ 94.9 million from $ 88.3 million .
also attributed the sacramento , calif. , company improved performance to a lower effective tax rate and higher interest income .
for the nine months , had the newspaper chain almost a 23 % increase in profit to $ 23.6 million , or 83 cents a share , from $ 19.2 million , or 68 cents a share .
grew sales almost 7 % to $ 279.1 million from $ 261.3 million .
publish mcclatchy the sacramento ( calif . ) bee and tacoma ( wash . ) news tribune , and other papers in western states .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , closed down 25 cents the company at $ 25.25 a share , .
submitted agip s.p . a. and societe national elf aquitaine , the state oil companies of italy and france , respectively , an offer to buy gatoil suisse s.a .
was n't disclosed the price .
said a spokesman for gatoil that was examining the swiss oil concern the offer , submitted last friday , along with two other offers , also submitted last week .
was those two offers private and refused the spokesman to identify the bidding companies .
further said the spokesman that is expected at least two more offers from other companies within two weeks .
own gatoil suisse an oil refinery in switzerland with a capacity of 70,000 barrels a day , along with a network of gasoline retailing outlets .
while prompted friday 's plunging stock market new fears about the economy 's prospects , point a little-known indicator that have faithfully foreshadowed the economy 's ups and downs by exceptionally long lead times to a sustained rise in overall business activity .
reached the barometer , developed here , by analysts at columbia university 's center for international business cycle research a record high of 223.0 in august , the latest month available , and estimate the columbia researchers that have moved even higher it since then .
was up from 222.3 in july and 215.3 as recently as march the latest reading of 223.0 .
marked the august rise the fifth straight monthly gain for the indicator , which use the 1967 average as a base of 100 .
in contrast , while up in august , have fallen repeatedly the commerce department 's widely followed index of leading indicators , since reaching a high early this year .
have prompted its ragged behavior through much of 1989 some forecasters to anticipate the start of a new recession perhaps before year 's end .
but `` make the far stronger showing of the columbia index a recession any time soon highly unlikely , '' say geoffrey h. moore , the director of the columbia facility .
a leading authority on the business cycle , also is mr. moore a member of the business cycle dating group , the panel of private economists that decide for the government when begin expansions and recessions and end .
normally convene the group only when seem a change in the economy 's general course likely .
`` is scheduled no meeting because show the expansion no sign of going off the tracks , '' report mr. moore .
based largely on the recent strength in their index , called the long leading indicator , foresee the columbia analysts uninterrupted economic growth through the rest of this year and next year as well .
expect they a 2.6 % rise in 1990 in the gross national product , after adjustment for inflation .
underlying is the index 's longstanding ability to signal recessions or recoveries , as may be the case , by substantially greater periods than the commerce department 's index of leading indicators this optimism .
over the full post-world war ii era , on the average , have entered the columbia index , sustained declines 14 months before the onset of recessions and turned up eight months before recoveries .
is the comparable lead times for the commerce index , include whose components the stock market , far shorter -- 10 months before recessions and only three months before recoveries .
also have reconstructed the columbia economists how would have behaved the long leading index before the stock market crash in october that ushered in the great depression , had existed it , in 1929 , .
reached the indicator a peak in january 1929 and then fell steadily up to and through the crash .
`` was it an entirely different pattern from what 're seeing now , we '' say mr. moore .
in august , was the bond measure at its highest monthly average since early 1987 .
also rose it last friday , while sagged the stock market .
include other components of the long leading indicator a ratio of prices to unit labor costs in manufacturing industries , the m2 version of the money supply , adjusted for inflation , and the volume of new home-building permits .
notably absent from the columbia index is the stock market , which say mr. moore `` is simply no longer such a good indicator of the economy 's long-range prospects , though still is it useful for anticipating some short-run twists and turns '' .
as recently as 1975 , was rated the stock market -- as reflected in the standard & poor 's index of 500 common stocks -- by the national bureau of economic research as the best of the 12 leading indicators that then made up the commerce index .
was assigned it a mark of 80 out of a possible 100 , compared with scores ranging as low as 69 for the other components .
have lost the stock market some precursory power , analysts at the columbia center claim , because of the growing impact of international developments .
`` have become stocks more sensitive to factors not directly tied to the domestic economy , '' say mr. moore citing the exchange rate for the dollar on currency markets , the foreign-trade balance and inflows of foreign capital , .
also feel he that have diminished the rise of such computer-based practices as program trading the stock market 's relevancy to the economic outlook .
said bsn s.a. , a leading french food group , agreed it to acquire birkel g.m.b . h. , a west german pasta maker .
was n't disclosed the value of the acquisition .
is the move in line with bsn 's strategy of gradually building its share of the european pasta market through external growth .
will initially acquire bsn a 15 % interest in birkel , a closely held concern .
have the french group an agreement giving the right to buy all the shares outstanding , it and could be completed this within a few months , said a bsn spokeswoman .
said bsn was submitted the takeover for approval by the west german cartel office , .
is birkel west germany 's second-biggest producer of pasta , with sales of 250 million marks ( $ 133.4 million ) in 1988 .
have it 750 workers at three production units in southwest germany , and is that nation 's leading producer of pasta sauces .
strengthen the acquisition bsn 's position in the european pasta market .
currently rank second after barilla group of italy , is whose sales chiefly in the italian market the french group .
said moody 's investors service inc. reduced it its rating on $ 281 million of senior and subordinated debt of this thrift holding company , to c from ca , saying believe it will recover bondholders only `` negligible principal '' .
said the agency confirmed it american continental 's preferred stock rating at c .
is american continental 's thrift unit , los angeles-based lincoln savings & loan association , in receivership and have filed the parent company for protection from creditor lawsuits under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code .
downgraded moody 's investors service inc. its ratings on the subordinated debt of centrust to caa from b-3 .
also reduced the rating agency the ratings for long-term deposits to b-3 from ba-3 and for preferred stock to ca from caa .
said the rating agency was affected about $ 85 million in securities .
was prompted the downgrades , said moody 's , by the continuing turmoil in the junk bond market and the suspension of dividends on centrust 's preferred stock .
also said moody 's believed it if completed , could , endanger the proposed sale of 63 centrust branches to great western bank the thrift 's funding and market position .
avoided the stock market a repeat of black monday as recovered prices from an early slide , spurred by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
closed up 88.12 points , the dow jones industrials at 2657.38 , the fourth-biggest gain ever , after being down as much as 63.52 points in the morning .
erased the rally about half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , but is analysts cautious about the market 's outlook .
also rebounded the dollar , while plummeted bond prices and soared treasury bill rates .
also recovered somewhat , junk bonds though remained trading stalled .
also rose gold .
bounced back tokyo stock prices following a 1.8 % plunge on monday in early trading tuesday .
also moved higher the dollar in tokyo .
withdrew donald trump his $ 7.54 billion offer for american air , citing the `` recent change in market conditions '' .
slid amr $ 22.125 , to $ 76.50 .
also , tried a ual group to get financing for a lower bid , possibly $ 250 a share .
fell ual $ 56.875 , to $ 222.875 .
tumbled ibm 's earnings 30 % slightly more than expected in the third quarter , .
partly cited the computer giant a stronger dollar and a delay in shipping a new high-end disk drive .
is analysts downbeat about ibm 's outlook for the next few quarters .
plan u.s. auto makers to decrease 10.4 % car production in the fourth quarter , with coming virtually all the decline from the big three .
is output at japanese-owned and managed plants in the u.s. due to rise 42 % .
said budget director darman wo n't give he much leeway in coping with gramm-rudman spending cuts , which took effect yesterday federal agencies .
hope darman to prod congress to finish a deficit plan .
would be restricted the s&l bailout agency by a new bill in how raise it capital .
would create the ways and means plan another possible obstacle to selling sick thrifts .
was struck down a natural gas rule by a federal appeals court .
had prevented the regulation pipeline firms from passing part of $ 1 billion in costs along to customers .
agreed the supreme court to decide whether may dismantle a federal court a merger that have won regulatory approval but been ruled anticompetitive in a private suit .
slid merrill lynch 's profit 37 % in the third quarter .
posted bear stearns a 7.5 % gain , while had painewebber a decline due to a year-ago gain .
plan blue arrow of britain to return to the name manpower and take a big write-off .
may help the moves solidify the firm its dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market .
posted j.p. morgan a $ 1.82 billion loss for the third quarter , reflecting a big addition to loan-loss reserves .
more than doubled ncnb 's profit .
agreed k mart to acquire pace membership warehouse for $ 322 million , expanding its presence in the growing wholesale-store business .
is the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below a guide to general levels but do n't always represent actual transactions .
traded reserves among commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $ 1 million or more .
is the minimum unit $ 100,000 .
is these rate indications n't directly comparable ; vary widely lending practices by location .
said intel corp. reached it an agreement with alliant computer systems corp. to develop software standards for intel 's i860 microprocessor .
is the i860 , introduced earlier this year , intel 's entry in the crowded market for reduced instruction set computing , or risc , computers .
is intel , based in santa clara , calif. , the market leader for traditional microprocessors with its 8086 family that form the heart of ibm-compatible personal computers .
under the agreement , will invest intel $ 3 million to acquire a 4 % stake in alliant , a maker of minisupercomputers for scientists and engineers .
will license alliant , based in littleton , mass. , its parallel-computing technologies to intel , providing a way to let work simultaneously many i860 microprocessors in a single computer on a problem users .
said alliant plan it to use the microprocessor in future products .
declined it to discuss its plans for upgrading its current product line .
said omnicare inc. , which intends to expand its position in the medical and dental markets , acquired it a cotton and gauze products division from closely held sterile products corp. for $ 8.2 million .
said omnicare expect it to add the division `` substantial sales volume '' and to make a positive contribution to our earnings in 1990 and beyond .
in 1988 earned the cincinnati company $ 3.1 million , or 32 cents a share , on revenue of $ 148.5 million .
said omnicare operate the division under the trade name acco and supply the medical and dental markets .
said omnicare had the business , based in st. louis , sales of more than $ 14 million in the fiscal year ended march 31 , .
said burmah oil plc , a british independent oil and specialty chemicals marketing concern , have built up shv holdings n.v. of the netherlands a 6.7 % stake in the company .
said james alexander , a burmah spokesman , had previously owned shv `` a little under 5 % '' of burmah for about two years .
said he had n't notified the dutch company burmah of its reason for increasing the stake , .
have been pegged shv , which last year merged its north sea oil and gas operations with those of calor group plc , by speculators as a possible suitor for burmah oil in recent weeks .
also own shv 40 % of calor .
reported burmah , which own the castrol brand of lubricant oils , a 17 % rise in net income to # 43.5 million ( $ 68.3 million ) in the first half .
said j.p. industries inc. signed it a definitive agreement to sell its builders ' hardware group to closely held nalcor inc. of beverly hills , calif .
was n't disclosed terms , but said a j.p. industries spokesman is the amount will get j.p. industries for the group `` a little better than expected by the marketplace , and had been expecting the marketplace $ 25 million to $ 30 million '' .
consist the group of weslock corp. and jpi modern inc .
said j.p. industries , which is based in ann arbor , mich. , complete the sale a previously announced program to divest itself of its hardware and plumbing supplies operations .
is the company 's remaining business the manufacture and sale of engine and transmissions products for industrial and transportation applications .
citing a $ 3.1 million provision for doubtful accounts , posted dallas-based national heritage inc. a loss for its fourth quarter ended june 30 .
said the operator of nursing homes and retirement centers a unit of troubled southmark corp. , sustained it a net loss of $ 1.6 million , or nine cents a share , compared with net income of $ 1.3 million , or eight cents a share , a year earlier .
rose operating revenue 13 % to $ 22.2 million from $ 19.7 million in the year-earlier quarter .
said the company was created the $ 3.1 million reserve to reflect doubt about the collectability of receivables owed to national heritage by some of the real estate partnerships manage it .
also said the company was recognized primarily expenses incurred by the previous board and management in the recent contest for control in the first quarter ended sept. 30 .
fell national heritage stock 12.5 cents yesterday to close at $ 1.375 a share in new york stock exchange composite trading .
announced united biscuits ( holdings ) plc , a british food producer , the creation of a european group to bring together its trading interests in the region .
will comprise the new group all of united biscuit 's manufacturing and marketing operations in the food sector apart from those based in the u.s. .
said united biscuits will have the combined group , which will include businesses such as mcvities biscuits and terry 's confectionery , annual sales of more than # 1.5 billion ( $ 2.35 billion ) and trading profit of more than # 160 million ( $ 251 million ) .
`` will enable the new structure united biscuits to focus clearly upon opportunities for planned growth during the 1990s , '' said bob clarke , deputy chairman and group chief executive .
last month , agreed united biscuits to sell its entire restaurant operations to grand metropolitan plc for # 180 million .
now is standing an american journalist trial in namibia .
is this the place that over have been celebrating world opinion in the expectation that be going it to hold an election .
was writing the u.s. journalist 's `` crime '' that was the head of the commission charged with overseeing the election 's fairness , bryan o'linn , openly sympathetic to swapo .
shortly after that , had mr. o'linn arrested scott stanley and confiscated his passport .
is mr. stanley on trial over charges that violated he a proclamation , issued by the south african administrator general earlier this year , which made a crime punishable by two years in prison for `` to insult it any person , disparate or belittle '' the election commission .
do n't bode well the stanley affair for the future of democracy or freedom of anything in namibia when start swapo running the government .
to the extent have done mr. stanley anything wrong , may be it that is he out of step with the consensus of world intellectuals that was the namibian guerrillas above all else the victims of suppression by neighboring south africa .
have enjoyed swapo favorable western media treatment since ever declared the u.n. general assembly it the `` sole , authentic representative '' of namibia 's people in
last year , brokered the u.s. a peace settlement to remove cuba 's `` afrika korps '' from angola and hold `` free and fair '' elections that would end south africa 's control of namibia .
is set the elections for nov. 7 .
in july , visited mr. stanley , editor of american press international , a washington d.c.-based conservative wire service , namibia to report on the u.n.-monitored election campaign .
interviewed he mr. o'linn , head of a commission charged with investigating electoral intimidation , and reported that was mr. o'linn openly sympathetic to swapo and indeed had defended its leaders in court .
after was published mr. stanley 's article in two namibian newspapers , had brought mr. o'linn criminal charges against their editors , publisher and lawyer .
was arrested along with the others mr. stanley and charged when returned he to namibia this month .
have protested both the state department and the lawyers committee for freedom of the press mr. stanley 's detention .
is mr. stanley 's arrest the latest in a series of incidents that threaten to derail namibia 's elections .
is intimidating both south african and swapo extremists voters .
is the u.s. in the habit of arranging peace settlements and then washing its hands over the tragic results .
now have it the chance to redress that record in namibia .
should insist state and the human-rights community that be released mr. stanley and his fellow defendants and that make the united nation 's monitors certain that investigate mr. o'linn's commission election complaints from all sides .
generally reflected commodity futures prices the stability of the stock market following its plunge friday .
yesterday , at first created the stock market 's influence nervousness .
later , however , became it more of an undercurrent than a dominating force as reacted more individual markets to their own factors .
continued gold , the traditional haven in times of financial crisis , its inverse lockstep with the dollar , rising early in the day as fell the currency , and then giving up some of its gains as recovered the dollar .
reacted sharply copper and crude oil to the concern that yesterday could have a crash a potentially devastating effect on the economy .
fell copper and showed little rebound through the day as appeared one of the major supply problems that had been supporting prices to be solved .
declined early , crude oil but as retained the stock market early gains , too , became it , stronger , ending with a small net loss .
was trading in cotton and sugar nervous and showed small declines .
in chicago , rose slightly grain and soybean prices .
however , dropped livestock and meat prices , on concern that would cut a financial crisis consumption of beef and pork .
in commodity markets yesterday : precious metals : was futures prices moderately higher as gave up gold some of its early gains and behaved independently , platinum first falling and then later rising .
performed quietly silver .
rose the spot october gold price $ 4 to $ 367.30 an ounce .
settled the more active december delivery gold with a gain of $ 3.90 an ounce at $ 371.20 , after trading as high as $ 374 .
was december silver up 2.3 cents an ounce at $ 5.163 .
behaved platinum easing early on concern over a possible weaker economy , but recovering later , as strengthened the stock market more like an industrial metal , .
was gold nowhere the spectacular performer was it two years ago on black monday .
for one thing , last friday , closed precious metals markets before went the stock market into its late-in-the-day nose dive , so could n't react it to it .
back on friday , oct. 16 , l987 , declined the stock market during the day , and surged gold prices as fell the stock market .
that day rose the october 1987 contract as much as $ 8.70 to as high as $ 471.60 , and rose the more deferred positions , due to mature as late as march 1989 , as much as $ 9.60 .
on black monday , oct. 19 , 1987 , tacked on the october contract further gains , rising to as high as $ 491.50 for a gain of almost $ 20 on top of the friday advances , before giving up almost $ 10 of that at the close .
was yesterday 's october gain of $ 4 miniscule compared with that .
said one analyst , peter cardillo of josephthal & co. , new york , already had the gold market some good price-supporting technical factors that would have caused prices to rise , with or without the stock market .
`` was cause what did the stock market the rise to take earlier than would have happened it , place '' said mr. cardillo .
said he there be a good chance that will retain gold its gains and rise further , .
expect he a drop in interest rates , which would help gold by keeping the dollar from rising .
according to mr. cardillo , finally , should be reflected the impact of the strong dollar in reduced exports in the august merchandise trade deficit , when is released the figures today .
said he be would damaging this to the dollar and supportive for gold , .
worried that friday 's 190-point stock market plunge might be a harbinger of things to come for the economy , called petroleum futures traders a halt to the recent string of increases in crude oil futures prices .
closed down 30 cents the u.s. benchmark crude , west texas intermediate , at $ 20.59 a barrel for november delivery , .
said some analysts was crude due for a correction anyhow , following several days of significant gains .
but agreed most market observers that is friday 's stock market drop what dampened spirits in the petroleum pits yesterday .
until yesterday , had been headed up futures prices on expectations that will continue world oil demand to be strong .
increased the organization of petroleum exporting countries its production ceiling for the fourth quarter based on projections of robust demand .
so send as well any bearish indicator , such as friday 's precipitous drop in the stock market , shivers through the oil markets .
after reacting early in the trading day to friday 's plummet , indeed , firmed up again futures prices as took traders note of the stock market 's partial recovery yesterday .
fell futures prices and showed little rebound as appeared one major labor problem that had been underpinning prices to be solved .
declined the december contract 3.05 cents a pound to $ 1.2745 .
was prices down from the outset of trading on concern that might create a drop in the stock market a weakened economy and a consequent reduction in copper use .
but provided the recovery in the stock market little help for copper as spread word that was about over , a three-month strike at the highland valley mine in british columbia according to an analyst .
is highland valley a large canadian producer and principal supplier to japan , which recently began seeking elsewhere copper as shrank its inventories .
last week was reported it that had overcome company and union negotiations the major hurdle , the contracting out of work by the company .
said the analyst , now , remain only minor points to be cleaned up .
said he `` for all intents and purposes , appear an agreement to have been achieved , '' .
rose copper inventories in new york 's commodity exchange warehouses yesterday by 516 tons , to 10,004 tons .
last week declined london metal exchange copper inventories 13,575 tons , to 89,300 tons .
was the lme stocks decline about as expected , but was n't the comex gain .
said the analyst however , was brushed aside this by concern over the stock market , .
at one point in futures trading , as firmed the stock market , rose the december contract to as high as $ 1.2965 , but was it n't able to sustain the gain .
`` was simply overbought it , '' said he , and helped selling by funds that computer is guided depress prices .
eased futures prices , more in reaction to hurricane jerry than to any influence of the stock market .
ended the december contract with a loss of 0.22 cent a pound , at 74.48 cents .
said ernest simon , cotton specialist for prudential-bache securities , new york caused technical considerations following the hurricane , which was a factor in the market friday , prices to decline yesterday , .
rose sharply prices friday as approached the storm texas and louisiana , which is part of the mississippi delta cotton-growing area .
said mr. simon after absorbing the potential effect of the hurricane , however , began prices to slip late friday , .
said he continued that selling yesterday and kept prices under pressure , .
said mr. simon is being predicted colder weather for the high plains of texas and the northern states of the delta during the coming weekend , .
added he have n't yet captured that traders ' attention , .
declined futures prices .
was the march contract off 0.32 cent a pound at 13.97 cents .
at one point in early trading rose the march price to as high as 14.22 cents when recovered the stock market , but then fell back the price .
said one analyst , was a price-depressing factor , that did n't make india , which had been expected to buy around 200,000 tons of sugar in the world market , any purchases .
said the analyst recently bought india 200,000 tons and was expected to buy more , .
thought another analyst that may have pulled back india because of the concern over the stock market .
said judith ganes , analyst for shearson lehman hutton , new york `` may have felt india that if there was a severe drop in the stock market and affected it sugar , could buy it at lower prices , '' .
at any rate , added she , `` need india the sugar , so will be in sooner or later it to buy it '' .
dropped sharply the prices of cattle and hog futures contracts because speculated traders that friday will linger long enough to prompt them to rein their spending at the supermarket , in which would hurt demand for beef and pork the stock market plunge in the minds of u.s. consumers .
dropped the price of the hog contract for october delivery its maximum permissible daily limit of 1.5 cents a pound .
rose slightly the prices of most grain futures contracts yesterday out of relief that was showing the stock market signs of recovering .
earlier in the session , set the prices of several soybean contracts new lows .
began a broad rally when began several major processors buying futures contracts , apparently to take advantage of the price dip .
said knight-ridder inc. would report it increased earnings per share contrary to reported analysts ' comments that would be down the publishing company 's earnings for the third quarter , .
said a company spokesman believed he was caused the confusion when told two weeks ago james batten , knight-ridder 's chairman and chief executive , new york analysts that knight-ridder 's earnings per share for the first nine months of 1989 would `` be behind a little bit '' from like period of
said the knight-ridder spokesman is expected the third-quarter earnings plan the company that to report oct. 24 to be up .
said the spokesman was he `` comfortable '' with revised analysts ' projections that would report the company earnings of between 62 cents and 64 cents a share , compared with the 53 cents a share reported it for the 1988 third quarter .
said knight-ridder agreed it with estimates that net income for all of 1989 would be around $ 2.86 a share , compared with $ 2.59 a share a year earlier .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed down 37.5 cents knight-ridder at $ 51.75 , .
said dd acquisition corp. extended it its $ 45-a-share offer for dunkin ' donuts inc. to nov. 1 from yesterday .
have the offer an indicated value of $ 268 million .
is dd acquisition a partnership of unicorp canada corp. 's kingsbridge capital group unit and cara operations ltd .
as previously reported , under the terms of a confidentiality agreement with dunkin ' donuts , agreed the partners to keep their offer open until nov. 1 , and not to acquire any additional shares except through a tender offer expiring on that date .
said dd acquisition that already own it 15 % of the common shares of the doughnut shop chain and that as of the close of business friday had been tendered an additional 11 % to its offer .
is based dunkin ' donuts in randolph , mass .
is based cara operations , a food services concern , and unicorp , a holding company with interests in oil and natural gas and financial services , in toronto .
posted golden west financial corp. , riding above the turbulence that have troubled most of the thrift industry , a 16 % increase of third-quarter earnings to $ 41.8 millon , or 66 cents a share .
earned the company $ 36 million , or 57 cents a share , in the year-ago quarter .
credited herbert m. sandler , chairman and chief executive officer of the oakland , calif. , savings-and-loan holding company , the high number of loans added to the company 's portfolio over the last 12 months for broadening its earning asset base and improving profit performance .
however , noted the executive that depressed slackening demand for new mortgages new loan originations to $ 1 billion , 30 % below the same period last year .
in savings activity , said mr. sandler have enjoyed consumer deposits a steady increase throughout 1989 , and topped $ 11 billion at quarter 's end for the first time in the company 's history .
amounted deposit growth to $ 393 million , more than double the year-ago figure .
said whirlpool corp. , benton harbor , mich. , have developed it a process to recover environmentally harmful chlorofluorocarbons , or cfcs , that previously entered the atmosphere during in-home repair of refrigerators and freezers .
said the maker of home appliances is the process , which involve the use of a multilayer plastic bag during repairs to capture the gaseous substance and transport it to a recycling center , already in use at a number of its service centers , and will be available to all authorized repair centers by spring .
vented earlier repairs the cfcs out of the home through a hose directly into the atmosphere .
is widely used cfcs as solvents , coolants and fire suppressants .
but have been linked their use to a potentially dangerous depletion of the earth 's ozone layer , and is seeking a number of companies to curtail use , or at least emission , of the substance .
said whirpool `` see we this process as a small but important step toward eventual elimination of cfc use in appliance manufacture , .
said maxus energy corp. , dallas , discovered northeast of its previously discovered intan field in the southeast sumatra area of indonesia it a new oil field .
said maxus did n't run it a production test on the three discovery wells drilled it in the field , which is about 1.6 miles from the intan field , because is the wells similar to others drilled at its intan and widuri fields .
however , said maxus believe it is the reserves in the field about 10 million barrels of oil .
have estimated the intan field reserves of 50 million barrels and have estimated the widuri field reserves of 225 million barrels .
is maxus , an independent oil and gas concern , the operator and own a 56 % interest in the new field , called northeast intan .
is owned other interests by bp petroleum development ( ses ) ltd. , c. itoh energy co. ltd. , deminex sumatra oel g.m.b . h. , hispanoil ( sumatra ) production ltd. , hudbay oil ( indonesia ) ltd. , inpex sumatra co. ltd. , lasmo sumatra ltd. , sunda shell , tcr sumat a.g. and warrior oil co .
is held the production-sharing contract area with pertamina , the indonesian state oil company .
said environmental systems co. is restating it its results to reduce its reported net income for the first nine months of its fiscal year after discovering took it tax credits that already had been taken last year .
said the little rock , ark. , hazardous-waste services company will reduce the restatement its net for the nine months ended july 31 to $ 2.5 million , or 17 cents a share , from $ 3.7 million , or 26 cents a share .
previously reported the company net of $ 2.3 million , or 15 cents a share .
said the company that for financial reporting purposes last year took it tax credits that will be recognized for tax purposes this year .
but because of confusion , took again it those credits in reporting its results through the first nine months .
said jack w. forrest , environmental systems president and chief executive officer , increase the change the company 's effective tax rate to about 35 % from 20 % .
said memotec data inc. signed it a definitive merger agreement with isi systems inc. under which will acquire memotec isi for $ 20 ( u.s. . ) a share , or about $ 130 million , in cash and securities .
in american stock exchange composite trading , closed up $ 3.125 isi at $ 18.625 .
in montreal exchange trading , closed unchanged memotec at 10.625 canadian dollars ( us$ 9.05 ) .
said memotec under the agreement , will merge isi , a braintree , mass. , provider of computer software and services to the insurance industry , with a u.s. unit of memotec created for that purpose .
is memotec a montreal-based maker of telecommunications products and provider of telecommunications and computer services .
said memotec call the agreement for to make it a $ 20-a-share cash tender offer for all shares outstanding of isi .
but said it agreed charles johnston , isi chairman and president , to sell his 60 % stake in isi to memotec upon completion of the tender offer for a combination of cash , memotec stock and debentures .
said memotec is conditioned the tender offer on , among other things , holders tendering at least 15 % of the shares outstanding , other than the shares held by mr. johnston .
said isi have instructed its board management to accept inquiries from any others interested in making a bid .
said isi can withdraw it from the merger agreement with memotec if surface a better bid .
said cms energy corp. , jackson , mich. , have resumed it the purchase of its common stock under a program approved by its directors in 1987 .
at the time of the original announcement , said cms authorized its board the purchase of as many as five million of its shares .
said a spokesman have been purchased 2.6 million shares since then .
said the company will buy it additional shares `` from time to time '' in the open market or in private transactions at prevailing market prices .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , closed down 62.5 cents , from the closing price of $ 37.375 a share on thursday , before friday 's plunge cms energy at $ 34.375 a share , .
currently have the utility company about 82.1 million shares outstanding .
will act morgan stanley & co. as the exclusive broker for the repurchase .
said hughes aircraft co. , a unit of general motors corp. , agreed it to purchase the electro-optics technology division of perkin-elmer corp .
was n't disclosed terms of the agreement .
but for the fiscal year ended july 31 , 1988 , the most recent period for which was broken out , results accounted the perkin-elmer unit for more than half the $ 145 million in sales recorded by the company 's government systems sector .
said perkin-elmer , which is based in norwalk , conn. , is the sale of the danbury , conn. , unit consistent with its restructuring strategy announced in april .
in addition to making electro-optical systems , also make the unit laser warning receivers .
is used these to warn pilots that have been focused a laser weapon on them aboard military helicopters .
said hughes of los angeles complement the perkinelmer unit 's work efforts by its electro-optical and data systems group , which make infrared sensors , military lasers and night vision equipment .
said hughes expect it the sale to close by year end .
ratified the communications workers of america a new regional contract and all but one of the local agreements with bell atlantic corp .
rejected cwa 's new jersey commercial local , which represent about 2,500 service representatives and marketing employees , the tentative agreement .
said both the union and the regional telephone company was working together they to resolve differences .
cover the new three-year contracts , which replace ones that expired aug. 5 , 41,000 bell atlantic employees .
follow the ratification a 23-day strike against the philadelphia-based company .
meanwhile , remain cwa and international brotherhood of electrical workers members on strike against nynex corp. , the new york-based regional phone company .
last week agreed the unions and the company to mediation .
represent the cwa 40,000 nynex workers and represent the ibew 20,000 workers .
for the moment , at least , have replaced euphoria anxiety on wall street .
jumped sharply the dow jones industrial average to close at 2657.38 , did n't sweep panic the world 's markets , yesterday and seemed investors large and small to accept friday 's dizzying 190-point plunge as a sharp correction , not a calamity .
among those sighing with relief was john h. gutfreund , chairman of salomon brothers , who took to monitor yesterday 's events to the firm 's trading floor .
as gained the rally strength at 3:15 p.m. , smiled broadly , he brandished his unlit cigar and slapped stanley shopkorn , his top stock trader , on the back .
at first , seemed it as if might repeat history itself .
as opened trading yesterday morning on the big board , could n't open stocks of many of the nation 's biggest companies for trading because was overwhelming a wave of sell orders buyers .
by 10:10 , was off 63.52 points , the dow industrials and still had n't opened the stock of ual corp. , had kicked off whose troubles friday 's plunge , .
but then , as quickly as had fallen the dow , began it to turn around .
ended it with a gain of 88.12 points .
by the market 's close , totaled volume on the new york exchange more than 416 million , the fourth highest on record .
handled the big board the huge volume without any obvious strain , in sharp contrast to black monday of 1987 .
but was largely confined the rally to the blue-chip stocks , which had been hard hit during friday 's selling frenzy .
overall , lost more big board stocks money than gained .
and was further hurt many arbitragers , already reeling from friday 's collapse of the ual deal , yesterday when collapsed a proposed takeover of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines , .
indeed , plunged the dow jones transportation average 102.06 points , its second-worst drop in history .
world-wide , was trading generally manageable .
was hardest hit the frankfurt stock exchange of the major markets , with falling blue chips there 12.8 % .
in london , left a midday rally the market 's major index off 3.2 % , and fell tokyo 's leading stock index only 1.8 % in surprisingly lackluster trading .
was hit harder than tokyo 's , other , more thinly traded asian markets but there was no free-fall declines .
say investors big and small learned they valuable lessons since the 1987 crash : in this age of computerized trading , must be expected huge corrections or runups in a few hours ' time .
what 's more , is such short-term cataclysms survivable and are no cause for panic selling .
say stephen boesel , a major money manager for t. rowe price in baltimore , `` there was less panic than in 1987 : we had been through it once '' , .
in somerset , wis. , agree adrian sween , who own a supplier of nursing-home equipment and is n't active in the stock market , .
`` look i at it as a ho-hum matter , '' say he .
played many other factors a part in yesterday 's comeback .
signaled the federal reserve its willingness to provide liquidity ; inched downward early in the day the interest rate on its loans to major banks .
began off by relatively modest amounts foreign stock markets , which kicked off black monday with a huge selling spree , the day .
after falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen , bounced back strongly the dollar , thus easing fears that would unload foreigners u.s. stocks to 141.8 , .
and also helped the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that was a crash n't in store calm investors .
for example , came many major institutions , ready to buy some of the blue chips felt they had been sharply undervalued on friday into work yesterday .
amid all the backslapping and signs of relief over yesterday 's events , still , cautioned some market professionals that there is nothing present in the current market system to prevent another dizzying drop such as friday 's .
`` there is too much complacency , '' say money manager barry schrager .
computers have increasingly connected securities markets world-wide , so that is often passed a buying or selling wave in one market around the globe .
so nervously eyed investors everywhere yesterday 's opening in tokyo , where got off the nikkei average of 225 blue-chip stocks to a rocky start .
plunged the average some 600 points , or 1.7 % , in the first 20 minutes of trading .
but had the selling wave no conviction , and first surged upward the market by 200 points , then drifted lower , closing down 647 .
in merrill lynch & co. 's tokyo trading room , sat quietly , some 40 traders and assistants with few orders to process .
say one merrill trader `` all is staying clients '' out of the market , .
proved the relative calm in tokyo little comfort to markets opening up in europe .
was delayed frankfurt 's opening a half hour because of a crush of sell orders .
`` was the beginning chaotic , '' say nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank
in london , also was the view from the trading floor of an american securities firm , jefferies & co. , troubling .
a computer screen displaying 100 blue-chip stocks colors each one red when is falling its price .
was the screen a sea of red .
`` see i concern , but do n't see i panic , '' say j. francis palamara , a new yorker who run the 15-trader office .
turned up london 's blue-chip stock index sending an encouraging message to wall street just before 8 a.m . new york time , .
when opened trading in new york at 9:30 a.m. edt , fell sharply stocks -- as expected .
had opened futures markets in chicago at a level suggesting would fall the dow by about 60 points .
with piled up sell orders from friday , could n't open about half the stocks in the dow on time .
by 9:45 , had dropped the industrial average 27 points .
by 10 a.m. , was down 49 it .
ten minutes later , hit down 63.52 points , another 2.5 % the dow bottom - .
but shortly before then , say some of wall street 's sharpest traders sensed they a turn , .
`` was the first thing that caught my eye that was encouraging was off , treasury bonds '' say austin george , head of stock trading at t. rowe price .
`` meant it that was n't running pell-mell people to the safety of bonds '' .
shortly after 10 a.m. , exploded upward the major market index , a chicago board of trade futures contract of 20 stocks designed to mimic the djia , .
was buoyed stock traders -- because had also started an upturn in the mmi the recovery in stocks on the tuesday following black monday .
`` have gone better , the mmi '' shouted a trader in the london office of shearson lehman hutton .
went shearson 's london trading room wild .
shouted out traders as posted their reuters , quotron and telerate screens an ever-narrowing loss on wall street .
then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded wall street to a gain on the day .
`` rally , rally , rally , '' shouted shearson 's andy rosen .
`` is this panic buying . ''
led major blue-chip stocks like philip morris , general motors and proctor & gamble the rally .
was said japanese to be heavy buyers .
reportedly loaded up german and dutch investors on kellogg co .
say traders , then , kicked corporations with share buy-back programs triggering gains in , among other issues , alcan aluminium and mcdonald 's into high gear , .
opened late down 8.5 walt disney co. , which had one of the biggest sell-order imbalances on friday and was one of seven stocks that halted trading and never reopened that day , yesterday at 114.5 , .
said traders but then suddenly burst upward it 7.5 as stepped in goldman , sachs & co. and bought almost every share offer , .
by 10:25 , had turned up the dow prompting cheers on trading desks and exchange floors for the day , .
among big board specialists , was the cry `` pull your offers '' meaning that soon expected specialists to get higher prices for their shares -- .
`` was it bedlam on the upside , '' said one big board specialist .
spurred this technical strength buying from wall street 's `` black boxes , '' computer programs designed to trigger large stock purchases during bullish periods .
typical , perhaps , was batterymarch 's dean lebaron .
say mr. lebaron , who manages $ 10 billion , `` turned on , we the trading system and did it was programmed it whatever to do '' . ,
asked what stocks bought the computer , say the money manager `` do n't know i '' , .
was making not everybody money .
was the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , heavy after was halted the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options friday .
had many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract bullish positions friday , and when came the shutdown was frozen they with huge losses .
over the weekend , told clearing firms the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning .
`` was absolutely killed they , slaughtered , '' said one chicago-based options trader .
meanwhile , came a test of the stock market 's rally at about 2 p.m. , with the dow at 2600 , up 31 points on the day .
say charles clough , a strategist at merrill lynch , had explained bargain hunting the dow 's strength up to that point and that was anticipating many market professionals a drop in the dow .
moreover , might have been expected the announcement that was withdrawing real estate magnate and sometime raider donald trump his offer for amr corp. to rattle traders .
instead , only paused the rally for about 25 minutes and then steamed forward as resumed institutions buying .
closed the market minutes after reaching its high for the day of
across the country , took many people yesterday 's events in stride , while remaining generally uneasy about the stock market in general .
say james norman , the mayor of ava , mo. : `` do n't invest i in stocks .
much prefer i money can put i my hands on '' .
while found mayor norman monday reassuring the market 's performance , say he , remain he uneasy .
`` have we saying half the experts one thing and half the other about the course of the economy '' .
say ralph holzfaster , a farmer and farm-supply store operator in ogallala , neb. , `` if come anything good out of this , might be it that put it some of these lbos on the skids '' . of the last few days events ,
say gordon fines , a money manager at ids financial services in minneapolis , `` 're you on a roller coaster , and may last that .
is the public still cautious .
said skipper 's inc. , bellevue , wash. , signed it a definitive merger agreement for to acquire a national pizza corp. unit the 90.6 % of skipper 's inc. do n't own it for $ 11.50 a share , or about $ 28.1 million .
plan np acquisition co. , a national pizza unit , to begin a tender offer for skipper 's on friday , conditioned on at least two-thirds of skipper 's shares being tendered .
said pittsburg , kan.-based national pizza will be financed the transaction under its revolving credit agreement .
in national over-the-counter trading , rose skipper 's shares 50 cents to $ 11 .
said skipper 's will help the merger finance remodeling and future growth .
previously turned down skipper 's a $ 10-a-share proposal from national pizza and questioned pizza hut inc. whether would violate the purchase national pizza 's franchise agreements .
said national pizza settled it its dispute with pizza hut , allowing it to make the purchase .
said national pizza also , began skipper 's results to turn around , permitting a higher offer , .
for the 12 weeks ended sept. 3 , had skipper 's net income of $ 361,000 , or 13 cents a share , compared with a net loss a year earlier .
was revenue $ 19.9 million .
rallied east germans as reportedly sought officials honecker 's ouster .
in what was considered the largest protest in the communist state 's 40-year history , marched at least 120,000 demonstrators to press demands for democratic freedoms , through the southern city of leipzig said opposition activists .
did n't intervene police .
as renounced the first of more than 1,300 east germans trying to flee to the west through poland their citizenship , meanwhile , reported a west german newspaper that demanded regional communist officials the dismissal of hard-line leader honecker .
in a foreign policy speech , called secretary of state baker , saying was it the `` legitimate right '' of the german people for the reunification of germany , .
blamed gorbachev the soviet union 's press for contributing to the nation 's mounting problems .
at a meeting friday , complained the kremlin leader about recent articles that raised the possiblity of civil unrest , and accused the media of fueling panic buying of goods by publishing stories about impending shortages .
approved house-senate conferees a permanent smoking ban on domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on flights of less than six hours to alaska and hawaii .
would cover the curbs all but a small percentage of flights , and represent an expansion of the current ban on flights of less than two hours .
was sentenced e. robert wallach by a u.s. judge in new york to six years in prison and fined $ 250,000 for his racketeering conviction in the wedtech scandal .
was found wallach , an associate of ex-attorney general meese , guilty in august of taking $ 425,000 in illegal payoffs from the now-defunct defense contractor .
resumed nasa the countdown for today 's launch of the space shuttle atlantis , and dismissed a federal appeals court in washington a lawsuit by anti-nuclear groups to delay the flight because was aboard the plutonium-powered galileo space probe .
said the space agency did n't expect it weather or protesters to block the liftoff .
said government sources is preparing the bush administration to extend a ban on federal financing of research using fetal tissue , .
was imposed a temporary prohibition in march 1988 .
while is opposed anti-abortion groups to such research , have said scientists transplanting such tissue could be effective in treating diabetes .
endorsed delegates from 91 nations a ban on world ivory trade in an attempt to rescue the endangered elephant from extinction .
however , said five african nations , would continue they selling the valuable tusks .
held mubarak reconciliation talks with gadhafi at the egyptian resort of mersa metruh .
was it the libyan leader 's first trip to egypt in 16 years .
announced they a reduction in formalities for travel , but did n't show any real signs of resuming full diplomatic ties .
said the egyptian president would visit he libya today to resume the talks .
reached seoul and pyongyang a tentative agreement to allow visits between families on the divided korean peninsula .
remained however , differences between the north and south korean governments , over conditions for the exchanges .
resumed freed black nationalists political activity in south africa and vowed to fight against apartheid , raising fears of a possible white backlash .
warned the nation 's main white opposition party that risked the government 's release sunday of eight black political prisoners bringing chaos and eventual black marxist rule to the nation .
said the white house `` is fully satisfied bush '' with cia director webster and the intelligence agency 's performance during the oct. 3 failed coup in panama .
reported the washington post that was frustrated unidentified senior administration officials with webster 's low-profile activities during the insurrection and wanted replaced him .
approved poland 's legislature limits on automatic wage increases without special provisions for food price rises .
was considered the vote a test of the solidarity-led government 's resolve to proceed with a harsh economic-restructuring program .
installed norway 's king olav v a three-party non-socialist government as relinquished gro harlem brundtland 's three-year-old labor regime power .
is led the 19-member cabinet by prime minister jan syse , who acknowledged a `` difficult situation '' since control the coalition only 62 seats in oslo 's 165-member legislature .
opened el salvador 's government a new round of talks with the country 's leftist rebels in an effort to end a decade-long civil war .
said a spokesman would present the guerrillas a cease-fire proposal during the negotiations in costa rica that include constitutional and economic changes .
said the state department there was a `` possibility '' that was selling some nicaraguan rebels their u.s.-supplied arms to salvadoran guerrillas , but insisted was it n't an organized effort .
separately , complained secretary of state baker about a u.n. aide who last week told the contras to disband as part of a regional peace accord .
said the department of trade and industry rose british retail sales volume a provisional 0.4 % in september from august and was up 2.2 % from september 1988 , .
for the three months ended in september , was down 0.5 % from the previous three months and up 1.2 % from a year earlier retail sales volume .
agreed chicago investor william farley to sell three divisions of cluett peabody & co. for about $ 600 million to bidermann s.a. , a closely held clothing maker based in paris .
after shortly completing the $ 1.56 billion acquisition of west point-pepperell inc. in april , said mr. farley 's holding company , farley inc. , was considering it the sale of cluett , a leading shirt maker and one of west point-pepperell 's biggest units .
included is cluett units that make men 's shirts under the arrow name , socks under the gold toe name and menswear through the schoeneman division in the sale .
said the companies is the agreement subject to bidermann 's receipt of financing and to regulatory and other approvals .
said they is expected the sale to be concluded by the end of november .
said mr. farley should bring in the sale of three of cluett 's four main divisions plus other `` anticipated '' west point-pepperell asset sales by december , a total of about $ 700 million .
did n't elaborate he on other asset sales being considered .
followed mr. farley a similar pattern when acquired he northwest industries inc. and then sold much of its assets .
but kept he fruit of the loom inc. , the underwear maker still control he that and serve as chairman and chief executive .
was cluett an independent company until acquired west point-pepperell it for $ 375 million in cash and stock in 1986 .
in the fiscal year ended sept. 30 , 1988 , had cluett operating profit of $ 37 million on sales of $ 757 million .
sell bidermann clothes under various labels , including yves saint laurent and bill robinson for men and ralph lauren for women .
said a spokesman had the company sales of $ 400 million in 1988 .
in new york stock exchange composite trading , fell west point-pepperell 25 cents to $ 53.875 .
intend britain 's blue arrow plc to change its name to manpower plc and write off a chunk of the nearly $ 1.2 billion in good will realized in the takeover of u.s.-based manpower inc .
said blue arrow chairman mitchell fromstein that the two steps may be a prelude to reincorporating the world 's biggest employment-services group in the u.s. in an interview .
disclosed mr. fromstein the planned steps , expected within a few months , as posted blue arrow a 2.5 % drop in its third-quarter pretax earnings .
could help the name change and good will write-off solidify blue arrow 's dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market and give a more american image it as turn u.s. investors jittery about foreign stocks after friday 's market plunge .
now own u.s. holders more than 60 % of blue arrow compared with 9 % last january .
`` in the u.s. market , is the recognition of the manpower name infinitely stronger than blue arrow , '' said mr. fromstein .
also could erase the moves shareholders ' perception of blue arrow as a company in turmoil .
`` further reinforce it the concept that is blue arrow a thing of the past , '' said doug arthur , an analyst at kidder peabody & co. in new york .
make the proposed changes `` all '' a lot of sense to me , added he .
in a widely publicized boardroom coup , ousted mr. fromstein antony berry as blue arrow chief executive in january , a month after had forced out mr. berry mr. fromstein as the $ 1 million-a-year chief of milwaukee-based manpower .
solidified mr. fromstein his control in april by taking over from mr. berry as chairman .
but is n't over yet , the blue arrow tumult as is investigating the british government a disputed # 25 million ( $ 39.4 million ) loan which have said mr. fromstein was made under mr. berry 's direction .
was blue arrow able to pull off the $ 1.34 billion takeover of manpower in 1987 because largely produce different british and american accounting standards higher reported earnings for british companies .
under british rules , was blue arrow able to write off the $ 1.15 billion in good will arising from the purchase at once .
would have blue arrow as a u.s.-based company , to amortize the good will over as many as 40 years , creating a continuing drag on reported earnings .
is good will the excess of cost of an acquired firm , operating unit or assets over the current or fair market value of those assets .
but with so many shares now held in the u.s. , report blue arrow two ways , its earnings based on both u.k. and u.s. accounting standards .
`` look our balance sheets like came they from alice 's wonderland , '' said mr. fromstein .
show the british version `` a handful of pounds of net worth '' following the 1987 write-off of good will , while reflect the american version `` $ 1 billion of net worth '' because have been written off almost none of -lcb- the good will -rcb- .
said mr. fromstein hope he to eradicate some of the good will left on blue arrow 's u.s. books in one fell swoop , but would n't specify how much .
suggested people close to blue arrow would represent the write-down a sizable chunk , with claiming executives overstated prior management the extent of manpower 's good will .
along with the return to the manpower name , could bolster that move , the company 's prospects during possibly difficult times for temporary help .
said kidder peabody 's mr. arthur fell the number of u.s. temporary workers about 1 % in the 12 months ending aug. 31 , after sliding nearly 3.5 % in july , .
blamed partly blue arrow the pretax profit drop in the quarter ended july 31 on slower earnings growth of non-manpower units in britain .
overall , slid pretax profit to # 18.49 million in the quarter from # 18.98 million a year earlier .
hope richard g. sim , the man credited with transforming applied power inc. from an underachiever into a feisty player in the global market for hydraulic tools , to guide a similar turnaround at the company 's latest acquisition , barry wright corp .
figure the 45-year-old former general electric co. executive it will be easier this time .
but while applauding the acquisition , say analysts , face applied 's chief executive a tough challenge in integrating the two companies .
make barry wright , acquired by applied for $ 147 million , computer-room equipment and vibration-control systems .
the watertown , mass. , company 's sales have been dormant and have dropped its profits .
was last year 's earnings of $ 1.3 million , including $ 815,000 from a restructuring gain , far below the year-earlier $ 8.4 million .
besides spurring barry wright 's sales , which were $ 201.7 million in 1988 , must pare mr. sim its costs and product line .
say f. john mirek , an analyst at blunt ellis loewi in milwaukee `` is the question how long be going it to take barry wright to make a contribution , '' .
will help the answer determine whether continues applied to reach the ambitious goals set by mr. sim .
went the butler , wis. , manufacturer public at $ 15.75 a share in august 1987 , and then was mr. sim 's goal a $ 29 per-share price by 1992 .
helped strong earnings growth achieve far ahead of schedule , that price in august 1988 .
have since softened the stock trading around $ 25 a share last week and closing yesterday at $ 23.00 in national over-the-counter trading , .
but have set mr. sim a fresh target of $ 50 a share by the end of
say robert t. foote , applied 's chief financial officer , will require reaching that goal , `` efficient reinvestment '' of cash by applied and continuation of its healthy 19 % rate of return on operating capital .
in barry wright , see mr. sim a situation `` very similar '' to the one faced he when joined he applied as president and chief operating officer in 1985 .
was stagnating applied , then a closely held company , under the management of its controlling family .
while profitable , `` was n't growing it and was n't providing a satisfactory return on invested capital , '' say he .
is mr. sim confident that will work the drive to dominate certain niche markets at barry wright as it has at applied .
also profess he an `` evangelical '' fervor to develop a corporate culture that reward managers who produce and where is shared decision-making .
consider mr. sim the new unit 's operations `` fundamentally sound '' and add that barry wright has been fairly successful in moving into markets that have n't interested larger competitors .
say mr. sim `` with a little patience , will perform very satisfactorily , these businesses '' .
within about six months , `` will be moving things in the right direction , '' predict he .
figure mr. sim it will be easier to turn around barry wright since be he now in the driver 's seat .
when came he to applied , `` did n't have i the power to execute as do i today , '' say he .
was named he chief executive officer of applied in 1986 and became chairman last november .
at applied , set mr. sim growth as his first objective .
took he in an offering that netted about $ 12.6 million , applied which helped launch the company 's acquisition program the company public .
climbed sales to an estimated $ 245 million in fiscal 1989 , ended aug. 31 , from $ 99.9 million in fiscal 1985 .
expect the company that reached up from $ 15.2 million in fiscal 1988 and $ 3.9 million in 1985 earnings , which have marched steadily upward in recent years , about $ 20.8 million , or $ 1.58 a share , in the fiscal year just ended , .
