no , it was n't black monday .
but while the new york stock exchange did n't fall apart friday as the dow jones industrial average 190.58 points -- most of it in the final hour -- plunged it this side of chaos to stay barely managed .
some `` circuit breakers '' installed after the october 1987 crash their first test , unable the selling panic in both stocks and futures to cool failed traders say , .
the 49 stock specialist firms on the big board floor -- the buyers and sellers of last resort who was criticized after the 1987 crash -- the selling pressure once again could n't handle .
traders big investment banks the beleaguered floor traders to support by big blocks of stock , buying to step up to the plate refused say .
heavy selling of standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures in chicago stocks relentlessly beat downward .
seven big board stocks -- ual , amr , bankamerica , walt disney , capital cities/abc , philip morris and pacific telesis group -- trading stopped and never resumed .
the finger-pointing have already begun .
`` the equity market was illiquid .
'' christopher pedersen , senior vice president at twenty-first securities corp once again -lcb- -rcb- the specialists was not able the imbalances on the floor of the new york stock exchange , to handle said .
james maguire , chairman of specialists henderson brothers inc. `` it is easy the specialist his job is n't doing to say countered : .
when the dollar is in a free-fall , even central banks it ca n't stop .
speculators is calling for a degree of liquidity that is not there in the market '' .
many money managers and some traders their offices had already left early friday afternoon on a warm autumn day -- because the stock market was so quiet .
in a lightning plunge , in barely an hour the dow jones industrials about a third of their gains this year , then surrendered a 190.58-point , or 6.9 % , loss on the day chalking up in gargantuan trading volume .
final-hour trading accelerated to 108.1 million shares , a record for the big board .
at the end of the day , 251.2 million shares was traded .
the dow jones industrials closed at 2569.26 .
the dow 's decline was second in point terms only to the 508-point black monday crash that occurred oct. 19 , 1987 .
in percentage terms , however , the dow 's dive was the 12th-worst ever and the sharpest since the market 156.83 , or 8 % , fell a week after black monday .
the dow 22.6 % fell on black monday .
shares of ual , the parent of united airlines , was extremely active all day friday , reacting to news and rumors about the proposed $ 6.79 billion buy-out of the airline by an employee-management group .
wall street 's takeover-stock speculators , or `` risk arbitragers , '' unusually large bets that a takeover would succeed and ual stock would rise had placed .
at 2:43 p.m. edt , the sickening news came : the big board trading in ual , was halting `` pending news '' .
one top floor trader on the exchange floor , `` we as soon as ual trading , stopped braced for a panic , '' said .
several traders their heads shaking could be seen the news when flashed .
for weeks , the market had been nervous about takeovers , after campeau corp. 's cash crunch concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers spurred .
and 10 minutes after the ual trading halt news that the ual group financing for its bid could n't get came .
at this point , the dow was down about 35 points .
the market crumbled .
arbitragers their ual stock could n't dump -- but they themselves rid of nearly every `` rumor '' stock they had .
for example , their selling trading halts in usair group , which closed down 3 7/8 to 41 1/2 , delta air lines , which 7 3/4 fell to 69 1/4 , and philips industries , which 3 sank to 21 1/2 to be declared caused .
these stocks eventually reopened .
but as panic spread , speculators blue-chip stocks such as philip morris and international business machines to sell their losses to offset began .
trading when was halted in philip morris , the stock was trading down 3 3/8 , at 41 , while ibm closed 5 5/8 lower at 102 .
selling snowballed because of waves of automatic `` stop-loss '' orders , which is triggered by computer prices when fall to certain levels .
traders on the other hand , most of their major institutional investors , sat tight said .
at 3:07 , one of the market 's post-crash `` reforms '' hold now , took as the s&p 500 futures contract 12 points , equivalent to around a 100-point drop in the dow industrials had plunged .
under an agreement signed by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange , trading was temporarily halted in chicago .
after the trading halt in the s&p 500 pit in chicago , waves of selling stocks themselves to hit on the big board , continued and specialists prices to notch down continued .
as a result , the link between the futures and stock markets ripped apart .
without the guidepost of stock-index futures -- the barometer of traders the overall stock market is headed where think -- many traders was afraid stock prices quoted on the big board to trust .
the futures halt was even assailed by big board floor traders .
one major specialist `` it things screwed up , '' said .
this confusion one form of program trading , stock index arbitrage , that the futures and stock markets , closely link and has been blamed by some for the market 's big swings effectively halted .
( in a stock-index arbitrage sell program , traders big baskets of stocks buy or sell and the trade in futures offset a price difference to lock in ) .
`` the airline information when came through , it every model we had for the marketplace , cracked '' said a managing director at one of the largest program-trading firms .
`` we a chance the programs we to do wanted to do did n't even get '' .
but stocks falling kept .
the dow industrials was down 55 points at 3 p.m. before the futures-trading halt .
at 3:30 p.m. , at the end of the `` cooling '' off period , the average was down 114.76 points .
during the the s&p trading halt , s&p futures sell orders piling up , meanwhile , began while stocks in new york falling sharply kept .
big board chairman john j. phelan `` the circuit breaker worked well mechanically said yesterday .
i it be nonproductive at this point to get into a debate if index arbitrage things would have helped or hurt just think '' .
under another post-crash system , ( mr. phelan was flying to bangkok as the market was falling ) big board president richard grasso was talking on an `` inter-exchange hot line '' to the other exchanges , the securities and exchange commission and the federal reserve board .
he camped out at a high-tech nerve center on the floor of the big board , he updates on prices and pending stock orders where could watch .
at about 3:30 p.m. edt , s&p futures trading , resumed and for a brief time the futures and stock markets to come back in line started .
buyers stepped in to the futures pit .
but the build-up of s&p futures sell orders weighed on the market , and the link with stocks to fray again began .
at about 3:45 , the s&p market careened to still another limit , of 30 points down , and trading was locked again .
futures traders the s&p that the dow as much as 200 points could fall was signaling say .
during this time , small investors their brokers , ringing whether another crash had begun wondering began .
at prudential-bache securities inc. , which to cater to small investors , is trying some demoralized brokers this would be the final confidence-crusher thought .
that be george l. ball , chairman of the prudential insurance co. of america unit , that the plunge was only `` mechanical '' to declare when took to the internal intercom system .
`` i a hunch that this particular decline today is something ` more ado about less have ' .
'' mr. ball it would be my inclination clients to advise not to sell , to look for an opportunity to buy , the brokers told .
at merrill lynch & co. , the nation 's biggest brokerage firm , a news release was prepared `` merrill lynch comments on market drop '' headlined .
the release that `` significant differences between the current environment and that of october 1987 there is '' and that `` attractive investment opportunities '' in the stock market there is still cautioned .
jeffrey b. lane , president of shearson lehman hutton inc. , that `` friday 's plunge relations with customers , to set back is going '' `` because it the concern of volatility reinforce however , said .
and i a lot of people will harp on program trading think .
it the debate to bring right back to the forefront be going '' .
as the dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss friday , the s&p pit locked at its 30-point trading limit stayed .
jeffrey yass of program trader susquehanna investment group 2,000 s&p contracts was for sale on the close , the equivalent of $ 330 million in stock said .
but no buyers there was .
traders while friday 's debacle professional traders rather than investors , involved mainly it the market vulnerable to continued selling this morning , left said .
stock-index futures contracts settled at much lower prices than indexes of the stock market itself .
at those levels , stocks by index arbitragers , who profits lock in by futures buying futures prices when fall , and stocks simultaneously sell off to be hammered is set up .
but nobody at what level the futures and stocks will open today know .
the de-linkage between the stock and futures markets friday will undoubtedly cause renewed debate about whether wall street is properly prepared for another crash situation .
the big board 's mr. grasso `` our systemic performance was good '' said , .
but `` the exchange will look at the performance of all specialists in all stocks .
'' he we a close look at any situation in which we the dealer-community obligations was n't met , think obviously 'll take said .
but specialists that just as in the 1987 crash , the `` upstairs '' firms -- big investment banks that the market support by big blocks of stock trading -- stayed on the sidelines during friday 's blood-letting complain privately .
mr. phelan `` it will take another day or two '' who was buying and selling friday to analyze said , .
concerning your sept. 21 page-one article on prince charles and the leeches : it be a few hundred years since england has been a kingdom .
it be now the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland , comprising wales , northern ireland , scotland , and ... oh yes , england , too .
ports of call inc. agreements to buyers that was n't disclosed its remaining seven aircraft to sell reached .
the agreements the number of planes the travel company have sold this year as part of a restructuring bring to a total of nine .
the company a portion of the $ 32 million realized from the sales its bank debt and other obligations resulting from the currently suspended air-charter operations to repay will be used said .
the company it its aging fleet of boeing co. 707s would sell because of increasing maintenance costs earlier announced .
a consortium of private investors operating as ljh funding co. it a $ 409 million cash bid for most of l.j. hooker corp. 's real-estate and shopping-center holdings have made said .
the $ 409 million bid the assumption of an estimated $ 300 million in secured liabilities on those properties , include according to those the bid making .
the group is led by jay shidler , chief executive officer of shidler investment corp. in honolulu , and a. boyd simpson , chief executive of the atlanta-based simpson organization inc .
mr. shidler 's company specialize in commercial real-estate investment and $ 1 billion in assets to have claim ; mr. simpson is a developer and a former senior executive of l.j. hooker .
mr. simpson `` the assets is good , but they more money and management than can be provided in l.j. hooker 's current situation , require '' said in an interview .
hooker 's philosophy to build and sell was .
we to build and hold want '' .
l.j. hooker , based in atlanta , is operating with protection from its creditors under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code .
its parent company , hooker corp. of sydney , australia , is currently being managed by a court-appointed provisional liquidator .
sanford sigoloff , chief executive of l.j. hooker , that he the bid have not yet seen but that he it would review and it bring to the attention of the creditors committee said yesterday in a statement .
the $ 409 million bid is estimated by mr. simpson as 75 % of the value of all hooker real-estate holdings in the u.s. representing .
bonwit teller or b. altman & co. , l.j. hooker 's department-store chains not included is in the bid .
the offer the massive 1.8 million-square-foot forest fair mall in cincinnati , the 800,000 square-foot richland fashion mall in columbia , s.c. , and the 700,000 square-foot thornton town center mall in thornton , colo cover .
the thornton mall opened sept. 19 with a bigg 's hypermarket as its anchor ; the columbia mall to open nov. 15 is expected .
other hooker properties included is a 20-story office tower in midtown atlanta , to be completed next february expected ; vacant land sites in florida and ohio ; l.j. hooker international , the commercial real-estate brokerage company that business once did as merrill lynch commercial real estate , plus other shopping centers .
the consortium was put together by hoare govett , the london-based investment banking company that is a subsidiary of security pacific corp .
allan campbell , the head of mergers and acquisitions at hoare govett , `` we any problems in the funding for the bid , raising do n't anticipate '' said in an interview .
hoare govett is acting as the consortium 's investment bankers .
according to people familiar with the consortium , the bid was code-named project klute , a reference to the film `` klute '' in which a prostitute played by actress jane fonda is saved from a psychotic businessman by a police officer john klute named .
l.j. hooker was a small home-building company based in atlanta in 1979 mr. simpson it to push into commercial development when was hired .
the company grew modestly until 1986 , a majority position in hooker corp. when was acquired by australian developer george herscu , currently hooker 's chairman .
mr. herscu an ambitious , but ill-fated , $ 1 billion acquisition binge that bonwit teller and b. altman & co. , as well as majority positions in merksamer jewelers , a sacramento chain ; sakowitz inc. , the houston-based retailer , and parisian inc. , the southeast department-store chain included to launch proceeded .
mr. simpson and mr. herscu a falling out eventually had over the direction of the company , and mr. simpson he resigned in 1988 said .
since then , hooker corp. its interest in the parisian chain have sold back to parisian 's management and the b. altman & co. chain to sell is currently attempting .
in addition , robert sakowitz , chief executive of the sakowitz chain , funds the hooker interest in his company to buy out is seeking .
the merksamer chain is currently being offered for sale by first boston corp .
reached in honolulu , mr. shidler that he the various hooker malls profitable can become with new management believe said .
mr. shidler `` these is n't mature assets , but they the potential to be so , have '' said .
`` managed properly , and with a long-term outlook , these investment-grade quality properties can become .
statistics canada , a federal agency , canadian steel-ingot production 291,890 metric tons totaled up 14.8 % from the preceding week 's total of 254,280 tons , in the week ended oct. 7 , said .
the week 's total was up 6.2 % from 274,963 tons a year earlier .
the year-to-date total was 12,006,883 tons , up 7.8 % from 11,141,711 tons a year earlier .
the bills oct. 26 will be dated and will mature oct. 25 , 1990 .
bids must be received by 1 p.m. edt thursday at the treasury or at federal reserve banks or branches .
as small investors their mutual funds peppered with phone calls over the weekend , big fund managers they a strong defense against any wave of withdrawals : cash have said .
unlike the weekend before black monday , the funds was n't swamped with heavy withdrawal requests .
and many fund managers cash levels have built up and they stock will be buying this week say .
at fidelity investments , the nation 's largest fund company , telephone volume was up sharply , but it was still at just half the level of the weekend preceding black monday in 1987 .
the boston firm stock-fund redemptions was running at less than one-third the level two years ago said .
as of yesterday afternoon , the redemptions less than 15 % of the total cash position of about $ 2 billion of fidelity 's stock funds represented .
c. bruce johnstone , who fidelity investments ' $ 5 billion equity-income fund run `` massive redemption levels over the weekend and a lot of fear around , two years ago there was '' said .
`` this feel more like a one-shot deal .
people is n't panicking '' .
the test may come today .
friday 's stock market sell-off came too late for many investors to act .
some shareholders have held off until today because any fund exchanges made after friday 's close place would take at today 's closing prices .
during the 1987 debacle stock fund redemptions to snowball did n't begin until after the market opened on black monday .
but fund managers they be ready say .
for instance , mario gabelli , cash positions well above 20 % hold in several of his funds .
windsor fund 's john neff and mutual series ' michael price they their cash levels had raised to more than 20 % and 30 % , respectively , this year said .
even peter lynch , manager of fidelity 's $ 12.7 billion magellan fund , the nation 's largest stock fund , cash built up to 7 % or $ 850 million .
one reason that after two years of monthly net redemptions , the fund net inflows of money from investors posted in august and september is .
mr. lynch `` i the money build up , have let '' who that he trouble stocks he likes finding has had added said , .
not all funds cash levels , have raised of course .
as a group , stock funds 10.2 % of assets the latest figures available from the investment company institute held in cash as of august , .
that was modestly higher than the 8.8 % and 9.2 % levels in august and september of 1987 .
persistent redemptions some fund managers stocks to dump cash to raise also , would force .
but a strong level of investor withdrawals is much more unlikely this time around , fund managers said .
a major reason that investors their purchases of stock funds already have sharply scaled back since black monday is .
stock-fund sales have rebounded in recent months , but monthly net purchases is still running at less than half 1987 levels .
john bogle , chairman of vanguard group inc. , a big valley forge , pa. , fund company `` nearly as much froth , there be not '' said .
many fund managers that now 's the time to buy argue .
vincent bajakian , manager of the $ 1.8 billion wellington fund , added to his positions in bristol-myers squibb , woolworth and dun & bradstreet friday .
and today he drug stocks like eli lilly , pfizer and american home products whose dividend yields have been bolstered by stock declines to buy 'll be looking .
for his part , fidelity 's mr. lynch , southern co. shares snapped up friday after the stock got hammered .
if the market drop further today , he he blue chips such as bristol-myers and kellogg 'll be buying said .
`` if they stocks like that , croak '' he said , it an opportunity that is `` the kind of thing you dream about '' present .
major mutual-fund groups phone calls was arriving at twice the normal weekend pace yesterday said .
but most investors share prices and other information was seeking .
trading volume was only modestly higher than normal .
fund groups any chances still , is n't taking .
they the jammed phone lines and other snags that some fund investors infuriated in october 1987 to avoid hope .
on saturday fidelity its 54 walk-in investor centers across the country opened .
normally the centers is closed through the weekend .
in addition , east coast centers will open at 7:30 edt this morning , instead of the normal 8:30 .
t. rowe price associates inc. its staff of phone representatives investor requests to handle increased .
the baltimore-based group that some investors money moved from stock funds to money-market funds noted .
steven norwitz , a vice president but most investors to be `` in an information mode rather than in a transaction mode , '' seemed said .
and among other groups , vanguard , it more phone representatives was adding today investors get through to help said .
in an unusual move , several funds investors to calm with recordings on their toll-free phone lines moved .
a recording at gabelli & co. funds `` we -lcb- friday 's -rcb- market decline view as a buying opportunity offering us as long-term investors , '' said over the weekend .
the janus group a similar recording had for investors .
several fund managers a rough market this morning expect before prices stabilize .
some early selling is likely from investors and portfolio managers who this year 's fat profits to lock in want to stem .
stock funds a staggering gain of 25 % have averaged through september , according to lipper analytical services inc .
elaine garzarelli , who shearson lehman hutton inc. 's $ 335 million sector analysis portfolio , run the market will open down at least 50 points on technical factors and `` some panic selling '' predict .
but she prices to rebound soon expect and investors she the stock market more than 10 % to 15 % wo n't decline from recent highs expect is telling .
she `` this is not a major crash , '' said .
ms. garzarelli she was swamped with phone calls over the weekend from nervous shareholders nevertheless , said .
`` half of them is really scared and to sell , want '' she said , `` but '' i them to talk out of it be trying .
she `` if all they was bullish , i 'd really be upset '' added , .
fund managers the backdrop to friday 's slide was markedly different from that of the october 1987 crash , argue .
they two years ago , unlike today , the dollar was weak , interest rates was rising and the market was very overvalued , say .
stephen boesel , manager of the $ 580 million t. rowe price growth and income fund `` from the investors ' standpoint , institutions and individuals a painful lesson learned ... by selling at the lows on black monday , '' said .
this time , `` i we a panic reaction 'll get do n't think .
newport corp. it fiscal-first-quarter earnings of between 15 cents and 19 cents a share , somewhat below analysts ' estimates of 19 cents to 23 cents to report expect said .
the maker of scientific instruments and laser parts orders fell below expectations in recent months said .
a spokesman that will sales in the current quarter the yearearlier quarter 's figure , newport net income of $ 1.7 million , or 21 cents a share , on $ 14.1 million in sales when reported about equal added .
ripples from the strike by 55,000 machinists union members against boeing co. air carriers reached friday as america west airlines it its new service out of houston will postpone because of delays in aircraft receiving from the seattle jet maker announced .
peter otradovec , vice president for planning at the phoenix , ariz. , carrier , that `` the work stoppage at boeing , now entering its 13th day , some turmoil in our scheduling have caused '' and that more than 500 passengers who to fly out of houston on america west were booked would now be put on other airlines said in an interview .
mr. otradovec boeing america west that the 757 it to get this thursday was supposed would n't be delivered until nov. 7 -- the day after the airline service at houston to initiate with four daily flights , including three nonstops to phoenix and one nonstop to las vegas had been planning told said .
those routes to begin now , is n't expected until jan .
boeing another 757 twin-engine aircraft as well as a 737 to send to america west by year 's end is also supposed .
too , those , is almost certain to arrive late .
at this point , no other america west flights -- including its new service at san antonio , texas ; newark , n.j. ; and palmdale , calif. -- have been affected by the delays in boeing deliveries .
the company 's reaction the domino effect a huge manufacturer such as boeing that can have on other parts of the economy nevertheless , underscore .
also it is sure the machinists added pressure put on the company to help .
tom baker , president of machinists ' district 751 , `` i that the company a prolonged walkout , can really stand or would want just do n't feel '' said in an interview yesterday .
`` i their customers it would like very much do n't think '' .
though , america west , is a smaller airline and than many of its competitors would be therefore more affected by the delayed delivery of a single plane .
mr. otradovec `` i that american and united such a hard time all the planes in their fleets , counting they one might not miss at all , probably have figure '' said .
a random check friday that the strike much of an effect on other airline operations was having to indicate indeed , did n't seem .
southwest airlines a boeing 737-300 set for delivery at the end of this month have and the plane to have on time expect .
a southwest spokesman `` it be so close to completion , boeing us there wo n't be a problem , be told '' said .
a spokesman for amr corp. boeing american airlines have assured it a 757 will deliver on time later this month said .
american delivery to take of another 757 in early december and 20 more next year is preparing and any changes in that timetable is n't anticipating .
in seattle , a boeing spokesman that the company has been in constant communication with all of its customers and that it was impossible what further disruptions might be triggered by the strike to predict explained .
supervisors and non-striking employees some 40 aircraft -- mostly 747 and 767 jumbo jets at the company 's everett , wash. , plant -- that were all but completed before the walkout to finish meanwhile , have been trying .
as of friday , four had been delivered and a fifth plane , a 747-400 , to be flown out over the weekend to air china was supposed .
no date to get back to the bargaining table have yet been set .
doug hammond , the federal mediator who has been in contact with both sides since the strike began `` we sure they what they want before they come back , know to make want '' said .
for one , the investment community , a speedy resolution have been anticipating .
though boeing 's stock price was battered along with the rest of the market friday , it actually have risen over the last two weeks on the strength of new orders .
howard rubel , an analyst at cyrus j. lawrence inc `` the market two views : that the labor situation will get settled in the short term and that things very rosy look for boeing in the long term , have taken '' said .
boeing 's shares $ 4 fell friday to close at $ 57.375 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange .
but mr. baker he the earliest a pact could be struck would be the end of this month , think that the company and union negotiations may resume as early as this week hinting said .
still , he said , it be possible that the strike could last considerably longer .
`` i an immediate resolution to anything would n't expect '' .
last week , boeing chairman frank shrontz a letter , sent striking workers that `` to my knowledge , boeing 's offer the best overall three-year contract of any major u.s. industrial firm in recent history represent '' saying .
but mr. baker the letter -- and the company 's offer of a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus bonuses -- `` very weak '' called .
he that the company the union 's resolve and the workers ' disgust with many hours to work overtime being forced miscalculated added .
in separate developments : -- talks have broken off between machinists representatives at lockheed corp. and the calabasas , calif. , aerospace company .
the union to work through its expired contract , is continuing however .
it a strike vote had planned for next sunday , but that has been pushed back indefinitely .
-- united auto workers local 1069 , which 3,000 workers at boeing 's helicopter unit in delaware county , pa. , represent it its contract to extend on a day-by-day basis , with a 10-day notification to cancel , while it bargaining continue agreed said .
the accord expired yesterday .
-- and on friday boeing it an order received from martinair holland for four model 767-300 wide-body jetliners valued at a total of about $ 326 million said .
the planes , long range versions of the medium-haul twin-jet , will be delivered with pratt & whitney pw4060 engines .
pratt & whitney is a unit of united technologies inc .
martinair holland is based in amsterdam .
a boeing spokeswoman a delivery date for the planes is still being worked out `` for a variety of reasons , but not because of the strike '' said .
bridget o'brian contributed to this article .
atco ltd. its utilities arm is considering new electric power plants , some valued at more than one billion canadian dollars ( us$ 851 million ) , in great britain and elsewhere building said .
c.s. richardson , atco 's senior vice president , finance , its 50.1%-owned canadian utilities ltd. unit cogeneration projects in eastern canada , and conventional electric power generating plants elsewhere , including britain , where the british government plans limited competition in electrical generation from private-sector suppliers to allow as part of its privatization program is reviewing said .
`` the projects is big .
'' mr. richardson they can be c$ 1 billion plus , said .
he `` but we would n't go alone , into them '' and canadian utilities ' equity stake would be small , said .
`` we to be the operator -lcb- of the project -rcb- and a modest equity investor ideally , 'd like .
he our long suit is our proven ability power plants , to operate '' said .
mr. richardson specifics atco 's proposed british project , regarding would n't offer but he it with two huge british power generating companies that would be formed under the country 's plan its massive water and electric utilities to privatize would compete for customers said .
britain 's government about # 20 billion ( $ 31.05 billion ) to raise from the sale of most of its giant water and electric utilities , beginning next month plan .
the planned electric utility sale , scheduled for next year , # 13 billion , to raise it the world 's largest public offering making is alone expected .
canadian utilities 1988 revenue of c$ 1.16 billion , had mainly from its natural gas and electric utility businesses in alberta , the company about 800,000 customers where serve .
`` to be a move around the world the generation of electricity , to deregulate there seems '' mr. richardson said , and canadian utilities to capitalize on it hope .
he `` this is a real thrust on our utility side , '' that canadian utilities projects in underdeveloped countries , is also mulling adding though he would be specific said , .
canadian utilities is n't alone in power generation opportunities in britain , exploring in anticipation of the privatization program .
bruce stram , vice president , corporate strategy and corporate planning , with enron corp. , houston , a big natural gas producer and pipeline operator `` we be certainly looking at some power generating projects in england , '' said .
mr. stram enron is considering gas-fired power plants capable of about 500 megawatts of power producing building in the u.k. at a cost of about $ 300 million to $ 400 million said .
pse inc. it third earnings of $ 1.3 million to $ 1.7 million , or 14 cents to 18 cents a share to report expect said .
in the year-ago quarter , the designer and operator of cogeneration and waste heat recovery plants net income of $ 326,000 , or four cents a share , had on revenue of about $ 41.4 million .
the company the improvement to additional cogeneration facilities that have been put into operation is related said .
concorde trans-atlantic flights is $ 2,400 to paris and $ 3,200 to london .
in a centennial journal article oct. 5 , the fares was reversed .
diamond shamrock offshore partners it gas had discovered offshore louisiana said .
diamond shamrock is the operator , with a 100 % interest in the well .
diamond shamrock offshore 's stock 12.5 cents rose friday to close at $ 8.25 in new york stock exchange composite trading .
kaufman & broad home corp. it a $ 53.4 million limited partnership subsidiary land in california suitable for residential development to buy formed said .
the partnership , kaufman & broad land development venture limited partnership , is a 50-50 joint venture with a trust created by institutional clients of heitman advisory corp. , a unit of heitman financial corp. , a real estate advisory , management and development company with offices in chicago and beverly hills , calif .
kaufman & broad , a home building company , the institutional investors to identify declined .
the land to be purchased by the joint venture zoning and other approvals required for development , have n't yet received and part of kaufman & broad 's job such approvals to obtain will be .
bruce karatz , president and chief executive officer of kaufman & broad the partnership the risk that it the approvals for development , may not get run but in return , it land can buy at wholesale rather than retail prices , which can result in sizable savings , said .
`` very few companies that adequate capital properties in a raw state to buy for cash have there is really .
'' mr. karatz , developers property , typically , option and once they the administrative approvals , get they it , then buy said that he the joint venture is the first of its kind believe adding .
`` we usually operate in that conservative manner '' .
mr. karatz by the joint venture , setting up kaufman & broad the more aggressive approach of raw land , buying can take while the negative impacts to its own balance sheet , avoiding said .
the company only 10 % of the capital , is putting up although it is responsible for management , planning and processing services providing to the joint venture .
mr. karatz `` this is one of the best ways a pipeline of land our growth to fuel to assure at a minimum risk to our company , '' said .
the price of plastics when took off in 1987 , quantum chemical corp. went along for the ride .
the timing of quantum 's chief executive officer , john hoyt stookey , to be nothing less than inspired , appeared because he quantum 's reliance on plastics had just increased .
the company much of the chemical industry outpaced as annual profit grew fivefold in two years .
mr. stookey `` it to last a whole lot longer than anybody think be going '' said of the boom , .
but prices now have nose-dived and quantum 's profit is plummeting .
some securities analysts is looking for no better than break-even results from the company for the third quarter , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , on sales of $ 724.4 million .
nearly a quarter of its value having lost since sept. 1 , the stock , closed down $ 1.125 , at $ 34.375 share , in new york stock exchange composite trading friday .
to a degree , quantum the new times that have arrived for producers of the so-called commodity plastics that modern life pervade represent .
having just passed through one of the most profitable periods in their history , these producers now see their prices eroding .
to be sure , pricing cycles , is nothing new for plastics producers .
and the financial decline of some steep look only in comparison with the heady period that is just behind them .
an executive at one of quantum 's competitors `` we was all wonderful heroes last year , '' say .
`` now we be at the bottom of the heap . ''
at quantum , which is based in new york , the trouble is magnified by the company 's heavy dependence on plastics .
once known as national distillers & chemical corp. , the company the wine and spirits business exited and more of its resources plowed into plastics after mr. stookey the chief executive 's job took in 1986 .
mr. stookey , 59 years old , to be interviewed for this article , declined but he that over the long haul -- across both the peaks and the troughs of the plastics market -- quantum will prosper through its new direction have consistently argued .
quantum 's lot is mostly tied to polyethylene resin , garbage bags , milk jugs , housewares , toys and meat packaging , among other items to make used .
in the u.s. polyethylene market , quantum the largest share , about 20 % have claimed .
but its competitors -- including dow chemical co. , union carbide corp. and several oil giants -- much broader business interests have and so are better cushioned against price swings .
the price of polyethylene a mere penny a pound , when move quantum 's annual profit fluctuate by about 85 cents a share , provided no other variables is changing .
in recent months the price of polyethylene , a dive even more than that of other commodity plastics , have taken .
benchmark grades , which still sold for as much as 50 cents a pound last spring , have skidded to between 35 cents and 40 cents .
the price of ethylene , the chemical building block of polyethylene , meanwhile , have n't dropped nearly so fast .
that discrepancy quantum hurt badly , because its own plants only about half of its ethylene needs cover .
by many accounts , an early hint of a price rout in the making came at the start of this year .
china , which huge orders for polyethylene , had been putting in them abruptly halted .
that excess polyethylene would soon be sloshing around the world , calculating other buyers that prices had peaked then bet and so inventories to draw down rather than new product order began .
kenneth mitchell , director of dow 's polyethylene business , producers inventories how much had swelled throughout the distribution chain as prices spiraled up to learn was surprised say .
he `` people bags , was even hoarding '' say .
producers prices bottom have hit now hope .
they increases of a few cents a pound effect to take in the next several weeks recently announced .
no one whether the new posted prices will stick once producers and customers to haggle start know however , , .
one doubter is george krug , a chemical-industry analyst at oppenheimer & co. and a bear on plastics stocks .
others ' estimates of price increases when can be sustained , noting he `` some say october remark , .
i 1992 say '' .
he that efforts prices to firm up will be undermined by producers ' plans production capacity to expand argue .
a quick turnaround is crucial to quantum because its cash requirements heavy remain .
the company a three-year , $ 1.3 billion plant-expansion program started this year to carry out is trying .
at the same time , its annual payments on long-term debt will more than double from a year ago to about $ 240 million , largely because of debt a $ 50-a-share special dividend to pay earlier this year taken on .
quantum the payout described at the time as a way for it the bonanza to share with its holders , because its stock price the huge profit increases was n't reflecting .
some analysts the payment saw as an effort takeover speculation also to dispel .
whether a cash crunch the company its quarterly dividend , 36 % raised only a year ago , to 75 cents a share to cut might eventually force a topic of intense speculation has become on wall street since mr. stookey dividend questions deflected in a sept. 29 meeting with analysts .
some his response -- that company directors the dividend review regularly -- viewed as nothing more than the standard line from executives .
but others he something less than his usual straight-from-the-shoulder performance had given thinking came away .
in any case , on the day of the meeting , quantum 's shares $ 2.625 slid to $ 36.625 in big board trading .
on top of everything else , quantum a disaster at its plant in morris , ill confront .
after an explosion the plant idled in june , the company progressed in september to within 12 hours of the drawn-out process of it restarting completing .
a second explosion then occurred .
two workers died and six remain in the hospital .
this human toll the most painful dimension yet add to the sudden change in quantum 's fortunes .
until this year , the company its accident rate had been steadily lowering and trade-group safety awards picking up .
a prolonged production halt at the plant another imponderable could introduce into quantum 's financial future .
a plant demand , to meet when have just been running flat out lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance calculating is straightforward .
but the numbers trickier -- and subject to dickering between insured and insurer -- become demand when is shifting .
theodore semegran , an analyst at shearson lehman hutton who went through this exercise during his former career as a chemical engineer `` you you x percent of this product and y percent of that , could have sold say '' recall .
quantum the morris plant , limited production where got under way last week , full operation will resume by year 's end hope .
the plant usually account for 20 % to 25 % of quantum 's polyethylene production and 50 % of its ethylene production .
not everything grim look for quantum .
the plant expansion the company 's sway in the polyethylene business , market share where is often taken through sheer capacity should strengthen .
by ethylene production , lifting the expansion the company 's raw material costs will also lower .
quantum its grip on its one large business outside chemicals , propane marketing is also tightening .
through a venture with its investment banker , first boston corp. , quantum an acquisition of petrolane inc. completed in august in a transaction valued at $ 1.18 billion .
petrolane is the second-largest propane distributor in the u.s. .
quantum a crisis to get past still , have right now .
some analysts the weakening stock a suitor may yet attract speculate .
the name surfacing in rumors is british petroleum co. , which its polyethylene business in the u.s. to expand is looking .
asked about a bid for quantum , a bp spokesman say , `` we a policy of not commenting on rumors , pretty much have and i that fall in that category think .
rjr nabisco inc. its division responsible for network advertising time , buying is disbanding just a month after 11 of the group 's 14 employees moving to new york from atlanta .
a spokesman for the new york-based food and tobacco giant , private taken earlier this year in a $ 25 billion leveraged buy-out by kohlberg kravis roberts & co. , that it the rjr nabisco broadcast unit , is shutting down and its 14 employees , dismissing in a move money to save confirmed .
the spokesman rjr its network-buying plans is discussing with its two main advertising firms , fcb/leber katz and mccann erickson said .
the spokesman , who rjr how much spend on network television time to specify declined `` we that an ad agency just as good a job could do at significantly lower cost , found with the size of our media purchases '' said .
an executive close to the company rjr about $ 140 million is spending down from roughly $ 200 million last year on network television time this year , said .
the spokesman said the broadcast unit will be disbanded dec. 1 , and the move rjr 's print , radio and spot-television buying practices wo n't affect .
the broadcast group had been based in new york until rjr 's previous management it a year ago , when moved to atlanta , the company 's headquarters before this summer .
one employee with the group rjr 11 employees of the group moved back to new york in september because `` to be a future there was supposed '' said .
he the company three more buyers hired for the unit within the past two weeks , them wooing from jobs with advertising agencies said .
the rjr spokesman the company the 11 employees moved to new york last month because the group had then been in the midst of ad time for the networks ' upcoming season purchasing said .
he `` the studies -lcb- on the unit closing -rcb- could n't be completed until now , '' said .
the group 's president , peter chrisanthopoulos , was n't in his office friday afternoon to comment .
the u.s. , which its steel-import quotas , is finalizing to developing and newly industrialized countries which relatively unsubsidized steel industries have a larger share of its steel market is allocating .
the u.s. a significant cut in japan 's steel quota , meanwhile , have negotiated and only a minor increase to the steel allotment for the european community made .
brazil , similar to mexico and south korea , a somewhat bigger share of the u.s. market than it under the previous five-year steel quotas , which expired sept. 30 had to negotiate is expected .
brazil and venezuela is the only two countries that steel talks with the u.s. for the year ending oct. 1 , 1990 have n't completed .
in recent years , u.s. steelmakers about 80 % of the 100 million tons of steel used annually by the nation have supplied .
of the remaining 20 % needed , the steel-quota negotiations about 15 % allocate to foreign suppliers , with the difference mainly by canada -- which is n't included in the quota program supplied .
other countries that formal steel quotas with the u.s. , do n't have such as taiwan , sweden and argentina , steel also have supplied .
earlier this year the bush administration it steel quotas , known as voluntary restraint agreements , would extend until march 31 , 1992 said .
it it that two-and-a-half year period would use to work toward an international consensus on the international steel trade , which has been notoriously managed , subsidized and protected by governments freeing up also said .
the u.s. its plan , a `` trade liberalization program , '' termed despite the fact that it is merely an extension .
mexico , which was one of the first countries its steel talks with the u.s. , to conclude its quota virtually doubled to 0.95 % of the u.s. steel market from 0.48 % under the previous quotas .
south korea , which 1.9 % had under the previous quotas , a small increase to about 1.95 % to get is set .
that increase rise to slightly more than 2 % of the u.s. market if a joint korean-u.s. steel project is included .
brazil its allowance to increase from the 1.43 % share it have had in recent years meanwhile , is expected .
the ec and japan -- the u.s. 's largest steel suppliers -- their quotas have n't been filling to the full extent .
the ec steel industry , which has been coping with strong european demand , about 5 % of the u.s. market compared with recent quotas of about 6.7 % have been supplying .
japan steel about 4.5 % of the u.s. market compared with a quota of 5.9 % to total have been shipping .
in the recent talks , the ec its quota about 300,000 tons , increased to 7 % of the u.s. market from 6.7 % in 1988 had .
japan , its quota to cut to about 5 % from 5.9 % previously however , have agreed .
japan , the ec , brazil , mexico and south korea about 80 % of the steel imported to the u.s. under the quota program provide .
the balance is supplied by a host of smaller exporters , such as australia and venezuela .
the u.s. about an extra 2 % of the domestic steel market to give to foreign suppliers in its quota talks had .
that was essentially made up of a 1 % increase in the overall quota program and 1 % from japan 's allowance cutting .
negotiators from the white house trade office these quota negotiations will repeat next year they another 1 % of the u.s. steel market to allocate when will have .
these optional 1%-a-year increases to the steel quota program leverage with foreign steel suppliers them subsidies and protectionism to withdraw from their own steel industries to get to try to give its negotiators is built into the bush administration 's steel-quota program .
elcotel inc. fiscal second-quarter earnings 1988 results , to trail expect but that several new products will lead to a `` much stronger '' performance in its second half anticipate .
elcotel , a telecommunications company , net income of $ 272,000 , or five cents a share , had in its year-earlier second quarter , ended sept. 30 .
revenue $ 5 million totaled .
george pierce , chairman and chief executive officer , that earnings in the most recent quarter will be about two cents a share on revenue of just under $ 4 million said in an interview .
mr. pierce said , the lower results , a 12-month decline in industry sales of privately owned pay telephones , elcotel 's primary business reflect .
although mr. pierce that line of business to strengthen in the next year , expect he elcotel will also benefit from moving into other areas said .
foremost among those the company 's entrance into the public facsimile business , is mr. pierce said .
within the next year , elcotel 10,000 fax machines , made by minolta in japan , to place in hotels , municipal buildings , drugstores and other public settings around the country expect .
elcotel a credit-card reader for the machines billing data to collect , store and forward will provide .
mr. pierce elcotel a minimum of $ 10 of recurring net earnings should realize for each machine each month said .
elcotel an automatic call processor that further use will make of the company 's system for credit-card calls and collect calls automating and handling have also developed .
automatic call processors that system will provide for virtually any telephone , mr. pierce said , not just phones produced by elcotel .
the company a new line of convenience telephones , which coins , do n't accept for use in hotel lobbies , office lobbies , hospitality lounges and similar settings will also be producing .
mr. pierce that the processors and convenience phones about $ 5 of recurring net earnings would produce for each machine each month estimated .
the central statistical office britain 's retail price index 0.7 % rose in september from august and was up 7.6 % for the year , said .
quest medical inc. it a shareholders ' rights plan in which rights shares of common stock to purchase will be distributed as a dividend to shareholders of record as of oct. 23 adopted said .
the company the plan was n't adopted in response to any known offers for quest , a maker and marketer of hospital products said .
the rights shareholders quest stock to purchase at a discount if any person or group more than 15 % of the company 's common stock acquire or a tender offer announce allow .
measuring cups may soon be replaced by tablespoons in the laundry room .
procter & gamble co. a superconcentrated detergent that only a few spoonfuls per washload will require testing next month to begin plan .
the move stem from lessons learned in japan local competitors phenomenal success where have had with concentrated soapsuds .
it p&g 's growing concern that its japanese rivals , such as kao corp. , their superconcentrates may bring to the u.s. also mark .
the cincinnati consumer-products giant got clobbered two years ago in japan kao a powerful detergent , attack , called which a 30 % stake in the japanese markets quickly won when introduced .
one industry watcher `` they to get caught again , do n't want '' say .
retailers in phoenix , ariz. , p&g 's new powdered detergent -- cheer with color guard to be called -- will be on shelves in that market by early november say .
a p&g spokeswoman that shipments to phoenix started late last month confirmed .
she the company results from this market will study before expanding to others said .
superconcentrates is n't entirely new for p&g .
the company a superconcentrated lemon cheer introduced in japan after the success of attack watching .
attack the shelves when hit in 1987 , p&g 's share of the japanese market fell to about 8 % from more than 20 % .
with the help of lemon cheer , p&g 's share to be 12 % is now estimated .
while the japanese the compact packaging and convenience of concentrated products , have embraced the true test for p&g will be in the $ 4 billion u.s. detergent market , where growth is slow and liquids prominence over powders have gained .
the company the product to market under the cheer name may have chosen since it its best-selling tide be already expanded into 16 different varieties , including this year 's big hit , tide with bleach .
with superconcentrates , however , it is n't always easy consumers to persuade that less is more ; many people too much detergent to dump into the washing machine , that it a cup of powder take the laundry to really clean believing tend .
in the early 1980s , p&g a concentrated detergent to launch here under the ariel brand name it that market in europe tried .
but the product , which was n't as concentrated as the new cheer , bombed in a market test in denver and was dropped .
p&g and others consumers to hook on detergent and fabric softener combinations in pouches , also have tried repeatedly but they have n't sold well , despite the convenience .
but p&g the new cheer is a unique formula that an ingredient that colors prevent from fading also offer contend .
and retailers the product , to embrace is expected in part because it less shelf space will take up .
hugh zurkuhlen , an analyst at salomon bros `` when shelf space was cheap , bigger was better , '' say .
but with so many brands vying for space , that be no longer the case .
if the new cheer sell well , the trend toward smaller packaging is likely to accelerate as competitors follow with their own superconcentrates .
he `` retailers the -lcb- less-established -rcb- brands then will probably push out altogether , '' say .
competition is bound tougher to get if kao a product like attack introduce in the u.s. .
to be sure , kao an easy time u.s. market share taking away from the mighty p&g , which about 23 % of the market have would n't have .
kao officials they is interested in detergents selling in the u.s. , previously have said but the company so far have focused on acquisitions , such as last year 's purchase of andrew jergens co. , a cincinnati hand-lotion maker .
it a product-testing facility also have in california .
some p&g 's interest in a superconcentrated detergent go beyond the concern for the japanese believe .
mr. zurkuhlen `` this is something p&g would do with or without kao , '' say .
with economic tension between the u.s. and japan worsening , many japanese last week 's visit from u.s. trade representative carla hills had feared .
they a new barrage of demands that japan something do quickly its trade surplus with the u.s. to reduce expected .
they a discussion of the need for the u.s. and japan to work together and of the importance of the long-term view instead , got .
mrs. hills ' first trip to japan as america 's chief trade negotiator a completely different tone from last month 's visit by commerce secretary robert a. mosbacher had .
mr. mosbacher called for concrete results by next spring in negotiations over fundamental japanese business practices that free trade supposedly inhibit .
he such results should be `` measurable in dollars and cents '' in the u.s. trade deficit with japan reducing said .
but speaking at a breakfast meeting of the american chamber of commerce in japan on saturday , mrs. hills , that `` the objective definitive action to get by spring or summer , is not it a blueprint for action to have is rather '' stressed .
she that she `` a down payment ... some small step the american people and the japanese people that we be moving in earnest to convince perhaps to have '' expected added .
such remarks how translate into policy clear wo n't become for months .
american and japanese officials several theories for the difference in approach betwen mr. mosbacher and mrs. hills offered .
others the bush administration the rhetoric on both sides is getting out of hand may feel said .
and some it the growing debate in washington over free trade with japan versus some kind of managed trade pursuing reflected said .
mrs. hills her visit to compare to mr. mosbacher 's , asked replied : `` i every word he spoke , did n't hear but as a general proposition , i we a very consistent trade strategy have in the bush administration think '' .
more than one american official who sat in with her during three days of talks with japanese officials often her tone was surprisingly `` conciliatory '' yet said .
mrs. hills `` i my line has been very consistent , think '' said at a news conference saturday afternoon .
`` i be painted sometimes as ferocious , because i a ferocious list of statutes to implement perhaps have .
i very ferocious do n't feel .
i either hard or soft do n't feel .
i committed to the program of markets opening and trade expanding feel '' .
she the local press when met for the first time on friday , mrs. hills the need for progress in barriers to trade in forest products , satellites and supercomputers , three areas targeted under the super 301 provision of the 1988 trade bill removing firmly reiterated .
she exclusionary business practices the u.s. government that have identified highlighted .
but her main thrust the importance of world-wide free trade and open competition to promote was .
she the trade imbalance was mainly due to macroeconomic factors and should n't be tackled by quantitative targets setting said .
at her news conference for japanese reporters , one economics journalist the japanese sense of relief summed up .
he `` my impression that you would be a scary old lady , was '' a few nervous chuckles drawing from his colleagues said , .
mrs. hills ' remarks did raise questions , at least among some u.s. officials , about what exactly her stance is on u.s. access to the japanese semiconductor market .
many americans a 1986 agreement have interpreted as a 20 % share by 1991 , assuring u.s. companies but the japanese any such promise making have denied .
at one of her news conferences , mrs. hills `` i we can do much better than 20 % believe '' said , .
but she `` i am against managed trade stressed , .
i into an agreement that stipulate to a percentage of the market will not enter .
traditional industries inc. it a net loss for the fourth quarter that ended june 30 to report expect and new financing is seeking said .
the seller of photographic products and services it a number of financing alternatives , including increases in its credit lines seeking is considering said .
traditional the amount of the loss to estimate declined and would n't say if it a profit for the year to show expect .
in the year ended june 30 , 1988 , traditional net income of $ 4.9 million , or $ 1.21 a share reported .
the company its fourth-quarter results did n't break out .
in the latest nine months net income was $ 4.7 million , or $ 1.31 a share , on revenue of $ 44.3 million .
the company it a delayed fiscal-year report would file with the securities and exchange commission `` within approximately 45 days '' separately , said .
it the delay resulted from difficulties in its accounting of a settlement with the federal trade commission resolving said .
under an agreement filed in federal court in august ftc objections to some traditional sales practices , to settle traditional it a $ 250,000 trust fund refunds to provide to certain customers would establish said .
information international inc. it was sued by a buyer of its computerized newspaper-publishing system , that the company deficiencies in the system to correct failed alleging said .
a spokesman for information international the lawsuit by two units of morris communications corp. restitution of the system 's about $ 3 million purchase price and cancellation of a software license provided by the morris units to information international seek for alleged failure royalties to pay said .
information international it that filed in federal court in georgia , the complaints , is without merit believe said .
closely held morris communications is based in augusta , ga .
the units that the suit filed is southeastern newspapers corp. and florida publishing co .
syms corp. the sale of its a. sulka & co. subsidiary , a men 's luxury haberdashery , to luxco investments completed .
terms was n't disclosed .
marcy syms , president of the parent , `` as syms 's core business of off-price retailing grow , a small subsidiary that is operationally unrelated a difficult distraction , become '' said in a statement .
a spokeswoman sulka a total of seven stores operate in the u.s. and overseas said .
syms 25 off-price apparel stores operate in the u.s. .
the oil industry 's middling profits could persist through the rest of the year .
in the next few days major oil companies much less robust earnings than they did for the third quarter a year ago , largely reflecting deteriorating chemical prices and gasoline profitability to report is expected .
the gasoline picture may improve this quarter , but chemicals is likely weak , chances that profits their year-earlier performance could equal reducing to remain industry executives and analysts say , .
glenn cox , president of phillips petroleum co. , `` the industry a softening somewhat in volume and certainly in price in petrochemicals , is seeing '' said in an interview .
he `` that change third and fourth quarter earnings for the industry in general , will obviously impact '' added .
he phillips 's results did n't forecast .
but securities analysts phillips will be among the companies hard-hit by weak chemical prices and a drop in third-quarter earnings will probably post say .
so , too , many analysts predict , will exxon corp. , chevron corp. and amoco corp .
it 13 % have plunged since july to around 26 cents a pound .
ethylene peaking at about 34 cents last december a year ago sold for 33 cents , .
a big reason for the chemical price retreat is overexpansion .
beginning in mid-1987 , prices accelerating began as a growing u.s. economy and the weak dollar demand spurred .
companies capacity added furiously .
now , greatly increased supplies is on the market , while the dollar is stronger , and domestic economic growth is slower .
third-quarter profits from gasoline was weaker .
william randol , a securities analyst at first boston corp `` refining margins was so good in the third quarter of last year and generally not very good this year , '' said .
oil company refineries for a robust holiday driving season in july and august that did n't materialize to prepare ran flat out .
the excess supply gasoline prices pushed down in that period .
in addition , crude oil prices profitability further pressuring was up some from a year earlier , .
refiners margins picked up in september , say and many industry officials gasoline profits will rebound this quarter , though still not to the level of 1988 's fourth quarter believe .
during the 1988 second half , many companies record gasoline and chemical profits posted .
crude oil production to be the most surprising element of companies ' earnings this year may turn out .
-- averaging roughly $ 2 a barrel higher in the third quarter than a year earlier -- prices have stayed well above most companies ' expectations .
demand has been much stronger than anticipated , and it typically accelerate in the fourth quarter .
bryan jacoboski , an analyst at painewebber inc `` we higher oil prices could see this year , '' said .
that will translate into sharply higher production profits , particularly compared with last year oil prices when steadily fell to below $ 13 a barrel in the fourth quarter .
in the third quarter , they about 5 % less than they were in 1988 averaged .
the main reason weather remain .
last summer was notable for a heat wave and drought that utilities more natural gas to burn increased electrical demand from air conditioning use to feed caused .
on the other hand , this summer , milder weather than usual had .
mr. cox , phillips 's president `` we 've been very disappointed in the performance of natural gas prices , '' said .
`` the lagging gas price fourth quarter performance to assist as many had expected is not going '' .
going into the fourth quarter , natural gas prices is anywhere from 8 % to 17 % lower than a year earlier .
for instance , natural gas currently produced along the gulf coast is selling down 13 % from $ 1.69 a thousand cubic feet a year ago on the spot market for around $ 1.47 a thousand cubic feet , .
to blunt growing demands from western europe for a relaxation of controls on exports to the soviet bloc , trying the bush administration , whether italy 's ing . c. olivetti & co. militarily valuable technology supplied to the soviets is questioning .
most of the western european members of coordinating committee on multilateral export controls , the unofficial forum through which the u.s. and its allies their export-control policies , align to argue for more liberal export rules at a meeting to be held in paris oct. 25 and 26 are expected .
they to press specifically for a relaxation of rules exports of machine tools , computers and other high-technology products governing plan .
but the bush administration it evidence that all cocom members is complying fully with existing export-control procedures to see before it further liberalization will support want say .
its point , to make it the italian government is challenging reports that olivetti with sophisticated computer-driven devices that parts for combat aircraft to build could be used the soviet union may have supplied to explain .
the london sunday times , which the u.s. concerns , first reported a u.s. intelligence report cited as the source of the allegations that olivetti $ 25 million in `` embargoed , state-of-the-art , flexible manufacturing systems '' exported to the soviet aviation industry .
olivetti these tools shipping reportedly began in 1984 .
a state department spokesman that the u.s. the allegations is discussing with the italian government and cocom , acknowledged but any details to confirm declined .
italian president francesco cossiga a quick investigation into whether olivetti cocom rules broke promised .
president bush his attention called to the matter during the italian leader 's visit here last week .
olivetti that it cocom rules , violated that the reported shipments was properly licensed by the italian authorities asserting have denied .
although the legality of these sales is still an open question , the disclosure the position of export-control hawks in the pentagon and the intelligence community to support could n't be better timed .
a washington lobbyist for a number of u.s. computer companies `` it that a story like this break just before every important cocom meeting , seem to me '' said .
the bush administration conflicting signals about its export-control policies , have sent unhealed divisions among several competing agencies reflecting .
last summer , mr. bush the administration moved in the direction of gradual liberalization he a north atlantic treaty organization meeting that he some exceptions to the cocom embargo of strategic goods would allow when told .
but the pentagon and the commerce department more recently , openly feuded over the extent to which cocom exports of personal computers to the bloc should liberalize .
these agencies that the west should be cautious about any further liberalization however , generally agree .
a state department spokesman `` no evidence that the soviet program ( illegally ) western technology to acquire have diminished , there be '' said .
salomon brothers international ltd. , a british subsidiary of salomon inc. , it warrants on shares of hong kong telecommunications ltd will issue announced .
the move a similar offer by salomon of warrants for shares of hongkong & shanghai banking corp closely follow .
the 50 million warrants will be priced at hk$ 1.25 each and a premium to the share price of about 26 % to carry are expected .
in trading on the stock exchange of hong kong , the shares closed wednesday at hk$ 4.80 each .
at this price , the shares to rise above hk$ 6.05 for subscribers to salomon 's issue their warrants to profitably convert would have .
while in the past hong kong companies warrants on their own shares , have issued salomon 's warrants is the first here to be issued by a third party .
`` salomon the warrants will cover '' by sufficient shares , or options to purchase shares , its entire position to cover buying .
bankers warrants for hong kong stocks is attractive because they an opportunity shares to buy without too great a risk taking give foreign investors , wary of volatility in the colony 's stock market , said .
the hong kong telecommunications warrants should be attractive to buyers in europe , the bankers added , because the group is one of a handful of blue-chip stocks on the hong kong market that international appeal have .
financial corp. of santa barbara suit filed against former stock speculator ivan f. boesky and drexel burnham lambert inc. , they the thrift defrauded by their relationship concealing it $ 284 million in high-yield , high-risk junk bonds to buy when persuading charging .
in a suit filed in federal court thursday , the s&l that a `` disproportionate number '' of the bonds it purchased in 1984 declined in value alleged .
financial corp. the bonds , purchased the suit alleged , after mr. boesky and drexel an agreement for vagabond hotels a 51 % stake in the thrift to purchase for about $ 34 million negotiated .
vagabond hotels by mr. boesky , who a prison term currently is serving for securities violations was controlled .
officials at drexel they the suit had n't seen and thus could n't comment said .
in addition to $ 33 million compensatory damages , the suit $ 100 million in punitive damages seek .
ivan f. boesky corp. and northview corp. , the successor company to vagabonds hotels also named is in the suit .
northview officials could n't be located .
financial corp. it the bonds to buy agreed after a representative of ivan f. boesky corp. it visited in november 1983 and financial corp. its financial condition could improve by the bonds purchasing said said .
shortly before the visit , mr. boesky and drexel representives had met with financial corp. officials and a letter of intent the 51 % stake in the company to acquire had signed .
the agreement however , was canceled in june 1984 .
the company financial corp. the bonds purchased in at least 70 different transactions in 1984 and since then $ 11 million in losses has realized on them , said .
ideal basic industries inc. its directors an agreement in principle calling for hofi north america inc. in a transaction that ideal 's minority shareholders will leave with 12.8 % of the combined company its north american cement holdings to combine with ideal reached said .
hofi , the north american holding company of swiss concern holderbank financiere glaris ltd. , its 100 % stake in st. lawrence cement inc. and its 60 % stake in dundee cement co. combining with its 67 % stake in ideal previously proposed .
but hofi 's first offer about 10 % of the combined company would have given ideal 's other shareholders .
ideal 's directors that offer , rejected although they they the merger proposal endorsed said .
under the agreement , hofi 87.2 % of the combined company will own .
ideal 's current operations about 39.2 % of the combined company will represent .
the transaction is subject to a definitive agreement and approval by ideal shareholders .
ideal it the transaction to complete early next year expect said .
while corn and soybean prices have slumped well below their drought-induced peaks of 1988 , wheat prices stubbornly high remain .
analysts and they be likely that way to stay for months to come , say .
the analysts for one thing , with many farmers more winter wheat even planting this year than last , tight wheat supplies is likely prices to support well into 1990 , say .
and if rain do n't fall soon across many of the great plains ' wheat-growing areas , yields in the crop now being planted supplies further squeezing could be reduced , .
expectations that the soviet union substantial buying orders will place over the next few months prices also supporting is .
by next may 31 , stocks of u.s. wheat to be carried over into the next season -- before the winter wheat now being planted is harvested -- to drop to 443 million bushels is projected .
stocks was 698 million bushels on may 31 of this year .
in response to dwindling domestic supplies , last month agriculture secretary clayton yeutter the u.s. government the number of acres farmers can plant in wheat for next year and still qualify for federal support payments would slightly increase said .
the government that the new plan production next year will boost by about 66 million bushels estimate .
it production for next year now estimate at just under 2.6 billion bushels , compared with this year 's estimated 2.04 billion and a drought-stunted 1.81 billion in 1988 .
but the full effect on prices of the winter wheat now being planted wo n't be felt until the second half of next year .
analysts until then , limited stocks is likely prices to keep near the $ 4-a-bushel level , say .
on the chicago board of trade friday , wheat for december delivery settled at $ 4.0675 a bushel , unchanged .
daniel basse , a futures analyst with agresource co. in chicago in theory at least , tight supplies next spring the wheat futures market susceptible to a supply-demand squeeze , could leave said .
such a situation havoc , can wreak as by the emergency that developed in soybean futures trading this summer on the chicago board of trade was shown .
in july , the cbot ferruzzi finanziaria s.p . a. futures positions equal to about 23 million bushels of soybeans to liquidate ordered .
the exchange it that some members would n't be able enough soybeans to deliver to find and to default on their contractual obligation to the italian conglomerate , which requests its holdings to reduce had refused would have feared said .
ferruzzi it the soybean futures market to manipulate was trying have denied .
conrad leslie , a futures analyst and head of leslie analytical in chicago unseasonably hot , dry weather across large portions of the great plains and in wheat-growing areas in washington and oregon the yield from this season 's winter wheat crop , to reduce is threatening said .
for example , in the oklahoma panhandle , 40 % or more of the topsoil is short of moisture .
he that figure climb to about 47 % in wheat-growing portions of kansas , said .
the soviet union any clear indication of its wheat purchase plans , have n't given but many analysts moscow sizable orders for u.s. wheat to place in the next few months , prices further supporting expect .
richard feltes , vice president , research , for refco inc. in chicago `` wheat prices will increasingly pivot off of soviet demand '' in coming weeks , predicted .
orange juice traders to see the price decline that began friday how long and how far will go will be watching .
thursday , after the close of trading , the market what would normally have been a bullish u.s. department of agriculture estimate of the 1989-90 florida orange crop late received .
it was near the low range of estimates , at 130 million 90-pound boxes , compared with 146.6 million boxes last season .
as expected , brazil however , waited for the crop estimate to come out and the export price of its juice concentrate then cut to about $ 1.34 a pound from around $ 1.55 .
friday 's consequent selling of futures contracts the u.s. report whatever supportive effect might have had erased and the november orange juice contract sent down as much as 6.55 cents a pound at one time .
it settled with a loss of 4.95 cents at $ 1.3210 a pound .
after a delay caused by drought at the start of its crop season , brazilian juice , to arrive in the u.s. in large quantities is beginning .
brazil demand for its product , which to be in plentiful supply is going to stimulate want .
one analyst said , the price cut , to be aimed even more at europe , consumption of brazilian juice where have fallen appeared .
the analyst it be a dollar-priced product , and the strong dollar it more expensive in europe , have made said .
new york futures prices have dropped significantly from more than $ 2 a pound at midyear .
the analyst barring a cold snap or other crop problems in the growing areas , downward pressure on prices is likely to continue into january , harvesting and processing of oranges in florida their peak , when reach said .
although some analysts look for profit-taking in the wake of friday 's leap in crude oil prices , last week 's rally to continue this week is generally expected .
william hinton , an energy futures broker with stotler & co `` i to look for a stable crude market , at least in futures trading , would continue '' said .
friday a week of steadily rising crude oil prices in both futures and spot markets capped .
on the new york mercantile exchange , west texas intermediate crude for november delivery finished up 42 cents on the day at $ 20.89 a barrel , .
on european markets , spot prices of north sea crudes meanwhile , was up 35 to 75 cents a barrel .
nauman barakat , a first vice president at shearson lehman hutton inc `` this market to go higher , still want '' said .
he that the november contract $ 21.50 a barrel or more will reach on the new york mercantile exchange predicted .
analysts a lack of bearish developments as well as rumors of a possible tightening of supplies of some fuels and crudes generally cite .
recurring reports that the soviet union difficulties is having with its oil exports and that nigeria its production limit have about reached and as much as it could sell ca n't produce there also is .
many traders a tightening of near-term supplies , particularly of high-quality crudes such as those produced in the north sea and in nigeria foresee .
an official close to the company if a hostile predator emerge for saatchi & saatchi co. , co-founders charles and maurice saatchi a management buy-out attempt , will lead said .
last week , saatchi 's largest shareholder , southeastern asset management , it had been approached by one or more third parties interested in a possible restructuring said .
and carl spielvogel , chief executive officer of saatchi 's big backer spielvogel bates advertising unit , he a management buy-out of the company , to lead had offered but was rebuffed by charles saatchi said .
mr. spielvogel he a hostile bid would n't launch said .
the executive close to saatchi & saatchi that `` if a bidder came up with a ludicrously high offer , a crazy offer which saatchi it could n't beat , knew it no choice but it to recommend to shareholders would have said .
but -lcb- otherwise -rcb- it would undoubtedly come back '' with an offer by management .
the executive any buy-out would be led by the current board , whose chairman is maurice saatchi and whose strategic guiding force to be charles saatchi is believed said .
mr. spielvogel is n't part of the board , nor any of the other heads of saatchi 's big u.s.-based ad agencies are .
the executive any price , did n't name but securities analysts saatchi upward of $ 1.3 billion would fetch have said .
the executive speculation that saatchi the new chief executive officer was bringing in the company only to clean up financially so that the brothers a buy-back could lead denied .
that speculation abounded friday as industry executives the appointment of the new chief executive , robert louis-dreyfus , who saatchi join and a member of its board become on jan. 1 analyzed .
mr. louis-dreyfus , formerly chief executive of the pharmaceutical research firm ims international inc. , a reputation as a savvy financial manager , have and will be charged with saatchi 's poor financial state largely repairing .
asked about the speculation that mr. louis-dreyfus the way to pave for a buy-out by the brothers , have been hired the executive `` that is n't the reason dreyfus have been brought in replied , .
he the company to turn around was brought in '' .
several saatchi agency clients they the company 's management shakeup little affect on them will have believe separately , said .
a spokeswoman for miller brewing co. , a major client of backer spielvogel `` it any impact on us , have n't had nor we it to , do expect '' said .
john lampe , director of advertising at painewebber inc. , a saatchi & saatchi advertising client , `` we no problem with the announcement , have because we it what change to bring about be going do n't know said : .
we agencies to change because of a change in london is n't going '' .
executives at backer spielvogel client avis inc. , as well as at saatchi client philips lighting co. , they no effect saw also said .
executives at prudential-bache securities inc. , a backer spielvogel client that its account , is reviewing comment declined .
mr. spielvogel that prudential-bache either a management buy-out and restructuring , or a buy-out of backer spielvogel alone , led by him to finance was prepared had said .
california 's glendale federal bank its $ 12 million to $ 15 million account awarded to the los angeles office of omnicom group 's bbdo agency .
the account was previously handled by davis , ball & colombatto advertising inc. , a los angeles agency .
royal crown cola co. its relationship with the boston office of hill , holliday , connors , cosmopulos have ended .
the account about $ 6 million had billed in 1988 , according to leading national advertisers .
as expected , young & rubicam inc. along with two senior executives and a former employee , not guilty pleaded in federal court in new haven , conn. , to conspiracy and racketeering charges .
the government that they jamaican officials bribed the jamaica tourist board ad account to win in 1981 have charged .
a spokesman for the u.s. attorney 's office `` extradition proceedings is just beginning '' for the other two defendants in the case , eric anthony abrahams , former jamaican tourism minister , and jamaican businessman arnold foote jr said .
the samsung group and bozell inc. a joint venture advertising agency to establish in south korea agreed .
bozell cheil corp. , as the new agency will be called , will be based in seoul and 70 % is owned by samsung and 30 % owned by bozell .
samsung korea first advertising co. , that country 's largest agency already own .
bozell backer spielvogel bates and ogilvy group join as u.s. agencies with interests in korean agencies .
a payment from a supplier and strong sales of certain data-storage products , citing maxtor corp. earnings and revenue jumped in its second quarter ended sept. 24 said .
the maker of computer-data-storage products net income rose to $ 4.8 million , or 23 cents a share , from year-earlier net of $ 1.1 million , or five cents a share said .
revenue soared to $ 117 million from $ 81.5 million .
maxtor its results was boosted by $ 2 million in payments received from a supplier , for a certain line of products maxtor that to sell anymore is n't going said .
maxtor effects from the line discontinuing a positive effect on future earnings and revenue may have said .
a spokeswoman would n't elaborate , but the company the discontinued product has never been a major source of revenue or profit said .
maxtor operationally , benefited from robust sales of products that data store for high-end personal computers and computer workstations .
in the fiscal first half , net was $ 7 million , or 34 cents a share , up from the year-earlier $ 3.1 million , or 15 cents a share .
revenue rose to $ 225.5 million from $ 161.8 million .
robert g. walden , 62 years old , a director of this provider of advanced technology systems and services , the board increasing to eight members was elected .
he retired as senior vice president , finance and administration , and chief financial officer of the company oct. 1 .
southmark corp. that it part of its 10-k report filed with the securities and exchange commission , but that the filing its audited financial statements and related information do n't include said .
operating under bankruptcy-law proceedings , the real estate and thrift concern , it the sec it financial statements could n't provide by the end of its first extension `` without unreasonable burden or expense '' told said .
the company asked for a 15-day extension sept. 30 , when the financial reports was due .
southmark it its 10k to amend as soon as its audit is completed financial results to provide plan said .
alan seelenfreund , 52 years old , chairman of this processor of prescription claims , thomas w. field jr. , 55 , who resigned last month succeeding was named .
mr. seelenfreund is executive vice president and chief financial officer of mckesson and will continue in those roles .
pcs rex r. malson , 57 , executive vice president at mckesson , also named as a director , the seat vacated by mr. field filling .
messrs. malson and seelenfreund is directors of mckesson , which an 86 % stake in pcs have .
medchem products inc. a u.s. district court in boston that a challenge by medchem to the validity of a u.s. patent held by pharmacia inc. was `` without merit '' ruled said .
pharmacia , based in upsala , sweden , that medchem 's amvisc product line infringe on the pharmacia patent had charged in a lawsuit against medchem .
the patent is related to hyaluronic acid , a rooster-comb extract used in eye surgery .
in its lawsuit , pharmacia unspecified damages and a preliminary injunction medchem to block from the amvisc products selling is seeking .
a medchem spokesman the products about a third of medchem 's sales and 10 % to 20 % of its earnings contribute said .
in the year ended aug. 31 , 1988 , medchem $ 2.9 million , or 72 cents a share , earned on sales of $ 17.4 million .
medchem the court 's ruling was issued as part of a `` first-phase trial '' in the patent-infringement proceedings and only one of its defenses in the case concern said .
it it `` all of its options '' is considering in light of the decision , including a possible appeal said .
the medical-products company that it `` its other defenses against pharmacia 's lawsuit , including the claim that it have n't infringed on pharmacia 's patent to assert '' plan added .
medchem that the court a conference scheduled for next monday -- a date for proceedings on pharmacia 's motion for a preliminary injunction to set said .
newspaper publishers mixed third-quarter results , aided by favorable newsprint prices and hampered by flat or declining advertising linage , especially in the northeast is reporting .
adding to unsteadiness in the industry , seasonal retail ad spending patterns in newspapers have been upset by shifts in ownership and general hardships within the retail industry .
in new york , the bonwit teller and b. altman & co. department stores have filed for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code , while the r.h. macy & co. , bloomingdale 's and saks fifth avenue department-store chains is for sale .
many papers throughout the country is also faced with a slowdown in classified-ad spending , a booming category for newspapers in recent years .
until recently , industry analysts decreases in retail ad spending had bottomed out and in fact would increase in this year 's third and fourth quarters believed .
all bets is off , analysts say , because of the shifting ownership of the retail chains .
edward j. atorino , industry analyst for salomon brothers inc `` improved paper prices weakness in linage , offset will help but the retailers ' problems the amount of ad linage they usually run , have affected '' said .
`` retailers is just in disarray . ''
for instance , gannett co. an 11 % gain in net income , posted as total ad pages dropped at usa today , but advertising revenue rose because of a higher circulation rate base and increased rates .
gannett 's 83 daily and 35 non-daily newspapers a 3 % increase in advertising and circulation revenue reported .
john curley , gannett 's chief executive officer total advertising linage was `` modestly '' lower as classified-ad volume increased , while `` softer demand '' for retail and national ad linage , there was said .
at usa today , ad pages 785 totaled down 9.2 % from the 1988 period , which was helped by increased ad spending from the summer olympics for the quarter , .
while usa today 's total paid ad pages for the year to date 2,735 , a decrease of 4 % from last year , totaled the paper 's ad revenue 8 % increased in the quarter and 13 % in the nine months .
in the nine months , gannett 's net 9.5 % rose to $ 270 million , or $ 1.68 a share , from $ 247 million , or $ 1.52 a share .
revenue 6 % gained to $ 2.55 billion from $ 2.4 billion .
at dow jones & co. , third-quarter net income 9.9 % fell from the year-earlier period .
net fell to $ 28.8 million , or 29 cents a share , from $ 32 million , or 33 cents a share .
the year-earlier period a one-time gain of $ 3.5 million , or four cents a share included .
revenue 5.3 % gained to $ 404.1 million from $ 383.8 million .
the drop in profit continued softness in financial advertising at the wall street journal and barron 's magazine reflected , in part , .
ad linage at the journal 6.1 % fell in the third quarter .
affiliated publications inc. a year-earlier third quarter net loss reversed .
the publisher of the boston globe net of $ 8.5 million , or 12 cents a share , compared with a loss of $ 26.5 million , or 38 cents a share , reported for the third quarter in 1988 .
william o. taylor , the parent 's chairman and chief executive officer , earnings to be hurt by softness in ad volume at the boston newspaper continued said .
third-quarter profit estimates for several companies is being strongly affected by the price of newsprint , which in the last two years several price increases have had .
after a supply crunch prices 14 % to rise since 1986 to $ 650 a metric ton , caused analysts is encouraged , because they a price increase do n't expect for the rest of this year .
companies with daily newspapers in the northeast the stable newsprint prices will need damage from weak ad linage to ease .
mr. atorino at salomon brothers he that times mirror co. 's earnings was down for the third quarter , because of soft advertising levels at its long island newsday and hartford courant newspapers estimate said .
trouble on the east coast was likely offset by improved ad linage at the los angeles times , which this week a redesign also unveiled .
new york times co. lower earnings to report for the third quarter because of continued weak advertising levels at its flagship new york times and deep discounting of newsprint at its affiliate , forest products group is expected .
alan kassan , an analyst with shearson lehman hutton `` times co. 's regional daily newspapers is holding up well , but little sign that things will improve there is in the new york market , '' said .
washington post co. improved earnings , to report is expected largely because of increased cable revenue and publishing revenue helped by an improved retail market in the washington area .
according to analysts , profits was also helped by successful cost-cutting measures at newsweek .
the news-weekly heightened competition from rival time magazine and a relatively flat magazine advertising market have faced .
knight-ridder inc. is faced with continued uncertainty over the pending joint operating agreement between its detroit free press and gannett 's detroit news , and analysts that earnings was down in the third quarter have told .
analysts however , point to positive advertising spending at several of its major daily newspapers , such as the miami herald and san jose mercury news .
bruce thorp , an analyst for provident national bank `` the miami market is coming back strong after a tough couple of years `` knight-ridder a hispanic edition when was starting up and circulation was falling , '' '' said .
in a series of moves that union officials in the u.s. and canada , angered general motors corp. , that as many as five north american assembly plants the mid-1990s may not survive as the corporation its excess vehicle-making capacity to cut struggle have signaled .
in announcements to workers late last week , gm death notices for two full-sized van assembly plants , effectively signed and serious doubt cast on the futures of three u.s. car factories .
gm is under intense pressure factories that unprofitable became as the giant auto maker 's u.s. market share skidded during the past decade to close .
about 80 % of its north american vehicle capacity , currently using the company , it will run at 100 % of capacity by 1992 have vowed .
gm it an aging assembly plant in lakewood , ga. , the eighth u.s. assembly facility to close since 1987 would make just a month ago , announced .
gm the pace of its factory consolidation to be stepping up to get in shape for the 1990s now , appear .
one reason is mounting competition from new japanese car plants in the u.s. that more than one million vehicles a year is pouring out at costs lower than gm can match .
another that united auto workers union officials they tighter no-layoff provisions in the new big three national contract that will be negotiated next year want have signaled is .
gm officials their strategy capacity and the work force to reduce to get in place before those talks begin want .
the problem , that gm 's moves is coming at a time uaw leaders dissidents who the union is too passive in the face of gm layoffs charge to silence when is trying however , is .
against that backdrop , uaw vice president stephen p. yokich , who head of the union 's gm department , recently became a statement issued friday gm 's `` flagrant insensitivity '' toward union members blasting .
mr. yokich the auto maker 's decision word of the latest shutdowns and product reassignments trickle out in separate communiques to the affected plants to let `` disarray '' and an `` inability or unwillingness consistent information , to provide '' showed said .
gm officials workers told late last week of the following moves : production of full-sized vans will be consolidated into a single plant in flint , mich .
that two plants -- one in scarborough , ontario , and the other in lordstown , ohio -- probably will be shut down after the end of 1991 mean .
the shutdowns about 3,000 canadian assembly workers and about 2,500 workers in ohio will idle .
robert white , canadian auto workers union president , the impending scarborough shutdown used the u.s.-canada free trade agreement and its champion , prime minister brian mulroney to criticize .
but canadian auto workers from a separate gm move that three u.s. car plants and one in quebec affect may benefit .
workers at plants in van nuys , calif. , oklahoma city and pontiac , mich. , being their facilities the next generation of the pontiac firebird and chevrolet camaro muscle cars to build is no longer considered was told .
company and union officials gm whether it the new camaro-firebird can build profitably at a plant in st. therese , quebec , is studying said .
that announcement union officials in van nuys and oklahoma city uncertain about their futures left .
the van nuys plant , which about 3,000 workers , employ a product to build do n't have after 1993 .
jerry shrieves , uaw local president , the facility plans as a `` flex plant , '' which several different types of products could build on short notice demand to satisfy working to continue to draw up was asked said .
at the oklahoma city plant , which about 6,000 workers the eight-year-old a-body mid-sized cars , building employ steve featherston , uaw local vice president , said the plant no new product lined up , have and `` none of us the a-body cars when will die know '' .
he he gm plans a-body cars building into the mid-1990s to keep have believe said .
at pontiac , the camaro-firebird decision uaw hopes that gm the shuttered assembly plant that the plastic-bodied , two-seater pontiac fiero model last built would reopen to erase however , appear .
the fiero plant was viewed as a model of union-management cooperation at gm before slow sales of the fiero the company the factory to close last year forced .
union officials a beating have taken politically as a result .
dissident uaw members the fiero plant have used as a symbol of labor-management cooperation 's failure .
institut merieux s.a. of france the canadian government an obstacle to its proposed acquisition of connaught biosciences inc. for 942 million canadian dollars ( us$ 801.6 million ) raised said .
merieux the government 's minister of industry , science and technology it that he was n't convinced that the purchase is likely to be of `` net benefit '' to canada told said .
canadian investment rules that big foreign takeovers that standard meet require .
the french company the government 30 days in which information its takeover plan to further support to submit gave it said .
both merieux and connaught is biotechnology research and vaccine manufacturing concerns .
the government 's action was unusual .
alan nymark , executive vice president of investment canada , which foreign takeovers , oversee it the first time in its four-year history the agency an adverse net-benefit decision about the acquisition of a publicly traded company that have made marked said .
he it the same conclusions about some attempts closely held to buy concerns , have reached but those acquisitions to proceed eventually allowed said .
jodi redmond , press secretary for harvie andre , canada 's minister of industry , science and technology `` this is n't a change in government policy ; this provision have been used before , '' said .
mr. andre the ruling issued based on a recommendation by investment canada .
spokesmen for merieux and connaught they had n't been informed of specific areas of concern by either the government or investment canada , said but they more information to have early this week hope added .
investment canada to comment on the reasons for the government decision declined .
viren mehta , a partner with mehta & isaly , a new york-based pharmaceutical industry research firm , the government 's ruling was n't unexpected said .
mr. mehta `` this a very politicized deal , concerning canada 's only large , world-class bio-research or pharmaceutical company , have become '' said .
mr. mehta the move that the transaction to go ahead as planned could allow could be an out-of-court settlement of connaught 's dispute with the university of toronto said .
the university the acquisition of connaught by foreign interests , to block is seeking concerns about the amount of research that would be done in canada citing .
the university a settlement proposal made by connaught is considering .
while neither side its contents , will disclose mr. mehta it more specific guarantees on research and development spending levels in canada than merieux offered to investment canada to contain expect .
some analysts , such as murray grossner of toronto-based richardson greenshields inc. , the government ruling the door open for other bidders , such as switzerland 's ciba-geigy and chiron corp. of emeryville , calif leave believe .
officials for the two concerns , which c$ 30 a share is bidding for connaught , could n't be reached for comment .
french state-owned rhone-poulenc s.a. 51 % of merieux hold .
weatherford international inc. it plans for a preferred-stock swap canceled but payment of dividends on the stock , may resume said and that it about 10 million common shares to publicly offer expect added .
the company it an undetermined number of common shares to offer in exchange for the 585,000 shares of its preferred stock outstanding planned said .
the exchange ratio was never established .
weatherford market conditions led to the cancellation of the planned exchange said .
the energy-services concern that in january 1990 , it payments of dividends on the preferred stock may resume said however , , .
weatherford its preferred-dividend payment suspended in october 1985 and it any plans to catch up on dividends in arrears about $ 6 million , have n't but will do so some time in the future said .
the company it filed with the securities and exchange commission for the proposed offering of 10 million shares of common stock , to be offered in november expected additionally , said .
the company salomon brothers inc. and howard , weil , labouisse , friedrichs inc. , underwriters for the offering , an option as much as an additional 1.5 million shares to buy over-allotments to cover was granted said .
proceeds bank debt to eliminate and restructure will be used .
weatherford approximately 11.1 million common shares outstanding currently have .
earnings for most of the nation 's major pharmaceutical makers to have moved ahead briskly in the third quarter , as companies with newer , big-selling prescription drugs fared especially well is believed .
analysts that all merck & co. , eli lilly & co. , warner-lambert co. and the squibb corp. unit of bristol-myers squibb co. benefited from strong sales of relatively new , higher-priced medicines that wide profit margins provide said .
less robust earnings at pfizer inc. and upjohn co. was attributed to those companies ' older products , many of which stiffening competition from generic drugs and other medicines face .
joseph riccardo , an analyst with bear , stearns & co. , that over the past few years most drug makers their slow-growing businesses have shed and other cost savings , such as manufacturing plants and administrative staffs consolidating instituted said .
mr. riccardo as a result , `` major new products significant impact , is having even on a company with very large revenues , '' said .
analysts profit for the dozen or so big drug makers , as a group , between 11 % and 14 % to have climbed is estimated said .
while that be not spectacular , neil sweig , an analyst with prudential bache , that `` the rate of growth especially good as compared to other companies will look if the economy turn downward '' said .
mr. sweig that merck 's profit for the quarter rose by about 22 % , propelled by sales of its line-up of fast-growing prescription drugs , including its anti-cholesterol drug , mevacor ; a high blood pressure medicine , vasotec ; primaxin , an antibiotic , and pepcid , an anti-ulcer medication estimated .
mr. sweig profit climbed though merck 's sales even was reduced by `` one to three percentage points '' as a result of the strong dollar , said .
in the third quarter of 1988 , merck $ 311.8 million , or 79 cents a share earned .
in rahway , n.j. , a merck spokesman the company earnings projections do n't make said .
mr. sweig he that lilly 's earnings for the quarter about 20 % , jumped largely because of the performance of its new anti-depressant prozac estimated said .
the drug , introduced last year , sales of about $ 300 million to generate this year is expected .
mr. sweig `` it to be a real blockbuster , be turning out '' said .
in last year 's third quarter , lilly $ 171.4 million , or $ 1.20 a share earned .
in indianapolis , lilly comment declined .
several analysts they warner-lambert 's profit also to increase by more than 20 % from $ 87.7 million , or $ 1.25 a share , it reported in the like period last year expected said .
the company is praised by analysts for its costs sharply lowering in recent years and numerous companies with low profit margins shedding .
analysts said , the company 's lean operation , sharp-rising sales from its cholesterol drug , lopid , earnings growth to power allowed .
lopid sales to be about $ 300 million this year , up from $ 190 million in 1988 is expected .
in morris plains , n.j. , a spokesman for the company the analysts ' projections is `` in the ballpark '' said .
to be about 18 % above the $ 123 million , or $ 1.25 a share , it earned in the third quarter of 1988 , estimated by analysts squibb 's profit , was the result of especially strong sales of its capoten drug for high blood pressure and other heart disease treating .
the company was officially merged with bristol-myers co. earlier this month .
bristol-myers to comment declined .
mr. riccardo of bear stearns that schering-plough corp. 's expected profit rise of about 18 % to 20 % , and bristol-meyers 's expected profit increase of about 13 % is because `` those companies largely is really managed well '' said .
scheringplough $ 94.4 million , or 84 cents a share , earned while bristol-myers $ 232.3 million , or 81 cents a share , earned in the like period a year earlier .
in madison , n.j. , a spokesman for schering-plough the company `` no problems '' with the average estimate by a analysts that third-quarter earnings per share rose by about 19 % , to $ 1 have said .
the spokesman the company the 20 % increase in full-year earnings per share , to achieve as it projected in the spring , expect said .
analysts pfizer 's recent string of lackluster quarterly performances continued , as earnings in the quarter to decline by about 5 % was expected meanwhile , said .
sales of pfizer 's important drugs , feldene for arthritis , treating and procardia , a heart medicine , have shrunk because of increased competition .
mr. sweig `` the ( strong ) dollar pfizer hurt too , a lot , '' said .
in the third quarter last year , pfizer $ 216.8 million , or $ 1.29 a share earned .
in new york , the company comment declined .
analysts they upjohn 's profit to be flat or rise by only about 2 % to 4 % as compared with $ 89.6 million , or 49 cents a share , it earned a year ago expected said .
upjohn 's biggest-selling drugs is xanax , a tranquilizer , and halcion , a sedative .
sales of both drugs have been hurt by new state laws the prescriptions of certain tranquilizing medicines restricting and adverse publicity about the excessive use of the drugs .
analysts the company 's hair-growing drug , rogaine , also , is selling well -- at about $ 125 million for the year , but the company 's profit from the drug have been reduced by upjohn 's expensive print and television campaigns for advertising , said .
in kalamazoo , mich. , upjohn comment declined .
amid a crowd of crashing stocks , relational technology inc. 's stock fell particularly hard friday , 23 % dropping because its problems was compounded by disclosure of an unexpected loss for its fiscal first quarter .
the database software company it a $ 2 million net loss for the fiscal first quarter ended sept. 30 expect said .
it analysts a small profit for the period had been expecting said .
revenue to be `` up modestly '' from the $ 26.5 million reported a year ago is expected .
relational technology net income of $ 1.5 million , or 12 cents a share , in the year-earlier period reported .
paul newton , president and chief executive officer `` while our international operations strong growth , showed our domestic business was substantially below expectations , '' said .
a spokesman said the company 's first quarter is historically soft , and computer companies in general slower sales is experiencing .
mr. newton he the resignation of thomas wilson , vice president of corporate sales , accepted and that his marketing responsibilities have been reassigned said .
the company mr. wilson 's resignation was n't related to the sales shortfall said .
relational technology public went in may 1988 at $ 14 a share .
it $ 1.875 a share fell friday , to $ 6.25 , a new low , in over-the-counter trading .
its high for the past year was $ 16.375 a share .
in the previous quarter , the company $ 4.5 million , or 37 cents a share , earned on sales of $ 47.2 million .
the bronx a wonderful botanical garden , a great zoo , its own charming little italy ( on arthur avenue ) and , of course , the yankees have .
having been subjected to news footage of the devastated south bronx , most people , the way tom wolfe 's sherman mccoy did in `` bonfire of the vanities '' however , look at the borough -- as a wrong turn into hell .
but laura cunningham 's bronx , her childhood bronx of the '50s , is something else altogether .
in a lovely , novelistic memoir , `` sleeping arrangements '' ( knopf , 195 pages , $ 18.95 ) , she an exotic playground , peopled mainly by jewish eccentrics and the occasional catholic ( real oddballs like her sexpot friend , the hell-kitten diana , age five ) remember .
ms. cunningham , a novelist and playwright , a vivid and dramatically outsized sense of recall have .
she her `` bronx of the emotions , a place the flats of mediocrity where is only relieved by steep descents into hysteria '' transform into the `` babylonian bronx , '' a world simmering with sex and death and intrigue .
in the babylonian bronx , jewish working-class people lived in drab , soviet-style buildings `` glamorized '' with names like anamor towers ( after owners anna and morris snezak ) , whose lobbies and hallways was decorated with murals of ancient syrians and greeks , friezes of pompeii .
for ms. cunningham the architectural discombobulation the discrepancy she living in the anamor towers as a little girl felt : `` ... '' outwardly ordinary , inwardly ornate , all inspiration owing to heathen cultures matched .
sharp-witted and funny but never mean , she be a memorialist a bit like truman capote , if he 'd been jewish and female and less bitchy .
really little lily , as ms. cunningham herself call in the book , was n't ordinary .
she by her mother , rosie , whom she as a loving liar , who history realigned to explain lily 's father why did n't live with them remember was raised , for the first eight years , .
rosie this man , who may or may not have known about his child , reinvented as a war hero for lily 's benefit .
rosie young died and lily as a romantic figure , who did n't interfere much with her child 's education on the streets her have remembered .
the games bronx children played ( kids holding down and them , stripping for example ) tame seem by today 's crack standards , but ms. cunningham all it sound like a great adventure make .
she `` without official knowledge of sex or death , we flirted with both , '' write .
she families analyzed by their sleeping arrangements .
her friend susan , whose parents her reminding she was unwanted , kept slept on a narrow bed wedged into her parents ' bedroom , as though she was a temporary visitor .
her friend diana 's father was a professional thief ; they any bedrooms to have at all did n't seem .
lily so obsessed with people where slept and how maybe became because her own arrangements shifting kept .
rosie when died , her uncles moved in -- and her the sleeping and other household arrangements make let .
they the apartment orange , pink and white , painted according to her instructions .
with loving detail she her uncle gabe , an orthodox jew and song lyricist ( who river rhymed with liver in a love song ) ; and uncle len , a mysterious part-time investigator who looked like lincoln and a change of clothing carried in a manila envelope , like an `` undercover president on a good-will mission '' recall .
they came honestly by their strangeness .
lily 's grandmother , no cookie baker , the heads of disliked relatives excised from the family album , and her perennial work-in-progress , `` philosophy for women '' lugged around .
the book some momentum lose toward the end , lily more preoccupied with boys dating and less with her delightfully weird family when become .
the bronx in bruce jay friedman 's latest novel , which flash back to the new york of the '50s also figure .
but both the past and present worlds of `` the current climate '' ( atlantic monthly press , 200 pages , $ 18.95 ) cramped and static feel .
for his sixth novel , mr. friedman the protagonist of his 1972 work , `` about harry towns '' to resuscitate tried .
harry is now a 57-year-old writer , whose continuing flirtation with drugs and marginal types in hollywood and new york quaintly out-of-synch seem .
harry the `` old '' days of the early '70s , people like his friend travis a psychiatrist when would take on a date what travis was doing wrong to analyze fondly remember .
`` an l.a. solution , '' mr. friedman explain .
line by line mr. friedman 's weary cynicism can be amusing , he especially when be riffing on the hollywood social scheme -- the way people each other the desperate ones who it merely almost made immediately canceling size up , .
harry all that have avoided by living in a long island suburb with his wife , who 's so addicted to soap operas and mystery novels she to notice her husband when disappear for drug-seeking forays into manhattan barely seem .
but it too many lines do n't take harry to figure out .
he be a bore .
gulf resources & chemical corp. it $ 1.5 million to pay as part of an accord with the environmental protection agency an environmental cleanup of a defunct smelter the company formerly operated in idaho regarding agreed said .
in 1984 the epa gulf resources , which was a part-owner of the smelter , that it was potentially liable for cleanup costs at the site sharing under the federal superfund program notified .
the 21-square-mile area is contaminated with lead , zinc and other metals .
earlier this year gulf resources a reorganization plan that it a unit of a bermuda concern , it potentially exempting from liability for the smelter 's cleanup costs would make proposed .
the company that as part of its agreement with the epa , `` it certain voluntary undertakings made with respect to intercorporate transactions entered into after the reorganization '' said .
the company , which a statement on the agreement issued late friday , that $ 1 million of the payment was previously provided for in its financial statements and that $ 500,000 will be recognized in its 1989 third-quarter statement said .
the company the agreement and consent decree is subject to court approval , said .
gulf resources that `` it equitable contribution to recover from others for both the amount of the settlement and any other liabilities it may incur under the superfund law will seek '' added .
under the agreement , gulf 45 days ' advance written notice must give the u.s. government before any dividends issuing on common stock .
the company 's net worth can not fall below $ 185 million after the dividends is issued .
lawrence r. mehl , gulf 's general counsel `` the terms of that agreement effective the date of gulf 's reorganization , which we will occur sometime in early 1990 , anticipate only become '' said .
in addition , gulf 20 days ' advance written notice of any loans $ 50 million exceeding that is made to the bermuda-based holding company must give the government .
the company it a special meeting for shareholders to hold in early 1990 to vote on its proposed reorganization expect separately , said .
that the market do n't head into a bottomless free fall , assuming some executives friday 's action a harbinger of good news -- as a sign that the leveraged buy-out and takeover frenzy of recent years may be abating could prove think .
john young , chairman of hewlett-packard co. , whose shares $ 3.125 dropped to $ 48.125 `` this is a reaction to artificial lbo valuations , rather than to any fundamentals , '' said .
`` if we rid of a lot of that nonsense , get it will be a big plus . ''
a few of the executives here for the fall meeting of the business council , a group that national issues , to discuss meet were only too happy their criticism to personalize .
rand araskog , chairman of itt corp. , whose stock $ 3.375 dropped `` people the government something would do about leveraged buy-outs , something do about takeovers , something do about donald trump , wish '' said .
the guy who ` enough is enough ' can say : where 's '' ?
the executives was remarkably unperturbed by the plunge though it billions of dollars even lopped off the value of their companies -- and millions off their personal fortunes .
kenneth olsen , digital equipment corp. president , who was leisurely strolling through the bright orange and yellow leaves of the mountains here after his company 's shares $ 5.75 plunged to close at $ 86.50 `` i to worry about one day 's decline , be not going '' said .
`` i anybody calling did n't bother ; i did n't even turn on tv '' .
john smale , procter & gamble co. whose an $ 8.75 slide took to close at $ 120.75 `` there has n't been any fundamental change in the economy , '' added .
`` the fact that this happened two years ago and a recovery there was some comfort that this wo n't be a problem give people '' .
of course , established corporate managements the setbacks of stock speculators and takeover artists to applaud often tend .
indeed , one chief executive who was downright delighted by friday 's events was robert crandall , chairman of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines and the target of a takeover offer by mr. trump .
whether friday 's action him being trumped by the new york real estate magnate , avoid could help asked mr. crandall smiled broadly and said : `` no comment '' .
on friday morning , before the market 's sell-off , the business leaders a report the economy would grow at roughly an inflation-adjusted 2 % annual rate , through next year , then accelerate anew in 1991 predicting issued .
lewis preston , chairman of j.p. morgan & co. and vice chairman of the business council of the 19 economists who worked on the business council forecast , only two periods of decline in the nation 's output over the next two years , projected and `` in both instances the declines is too modest the phrase recession , to warrant '' said .
the real estate slump that the price of new york office space and housing be pushing down the city 's retail real estate market is also affecting .
in manhattan , once-desirable store sites vacant sit and newly constructed space has been slow to fill .
retail real estate brokers tenants is reluctant leases to sign because of uncertainty about the local economy , turmoil in their own industries and a belief that rents bottom have not yet hit say .
faith consolo , senior vice president at garrick-aug associates store leasing inc `` an unbelievable amount of space available , there is '' say .
about 2,000 stores for rent , there is up from a more typical range of 1,200 to 1,500 .
she `` this retailers , further confuse '' say .
`` they wonder they a lease should sign if prices is still coming down ?
in addition , ms. consolo say , tenants rents that are about one-quarter lower than landlords ' initial asking price to pay usually can negotiate .
and , in some neighborhoods , rents a plateau have merely hit .
experts but on average , manhattan retail rents 10 % to 15 % have dropped in the past six months alone , say .
that a more subtle decline in the prior six months , after manhattan rents had run up rapidly since 1986 follow .
the same factors demand for office space limiting retailing have affected .
edward a. friedman , senior vice president of helmsley spear inc `` as businesses contract or depart , the number of employees who retail services might use shrink , '' say .
he financial problems electronics , fur and furniture companies -- key categories in the local retail economy -- plaguing the market have further deflated say .
hardest hit are he what `` secondary '' sites that neighborhood residents primarily serve call .
in these locations , mr. friedman say , `` retailers is increasingly cautious about expanding and rents steady have remained or in some cases have declined . ''
weakness in the restaurant industry , which retail space vacant , is leaving the problem exacerbate for landlords .
it is also no comfort to landlords and small new york retailers when the future of larger department stores , which retail neighborhoods , anchor is in doubt .
hooker corp. , parent of bonwit teller and b. altman 's , is mired in bankruptcy proceedings and bloomingdale 's is for sale by its owner , campeau corp .
the trend toward lower rents surprising may seem given that some communities in new york the loss of favorite local businesses to high rents is bemoaning .
but , despite the recent softening , for many of these retailers there 's still been too big a jump from the rental rates of the late 1970s , their leases when was signed .
the recent drop in prices manhattan cheap come certainly , do n't mean .
new york retail rents still run well above the going rate in other u.s. cities .
madison and fifth avenues and east 57th street rents of up to $ 500 a square foot , can command and $ 250 is not uncommon .
the thriving 34th street area rents of about $ 100 a square foot , offer as up-and-coming locations along lower fifth avenue do .
by contrast , rentals in the best retail locations in boston , san francisco and chicago $ 100 a square foot rarely top .
and rents on beverly hills ' rodeo drive about $ 125 a square foot generally do n't exceed .
the new york stock exchange two securities trading will begin this week said .
precision castparts corp. , portland , ore. , trading with the symbol pcp will begin .
it investment castings make and over-the-counter has traded .
royal bank of scotland group plc , an edinburgh , scotland , financial services company , american depositary shares , will list preferred shares , representing with the symbol rbspr .
it to trade on the international stock exchange , london will continue .
the american stock exchange shares of two companies listed .
aim telephones inc. , a parsippany , n.j. , telecommunications equipment supply company , trading with the symbol aim started .
it over-the-counter had traded .
columbia laboratories inc. , miami , trading with the symbol cob began .
the pharmaceuticals maker over-the-counter had traded .
the national market system of the nasdaq over-the-counter market shares of one company listed .
employee benefit plans inc. , a minneapolis health-care services company , was listed with the symbol ebpi .
justice william brennan the start of his 34th year on the supreme court when mark today , the occasion will differ sharply from previous anniversaries of his tenure .
for the first time , the 83-year-old justice his influence find almost exclusively in dissent , rather than as a force in the high court 's majority .
this role reversal true , hold as well , for his three liberal and moderate allies , justices thurgood marshall , harry blackmun and john stevens .
but these four players , three of them in their 80s , is ready a different role to assume after 88 years , collectively , of service on the high court ?
every indication that the four are prepared this new role , and the frustrations that go with it , to accept but in different ways is .
justices brennan and stevens philosophical about it appear ; justices marshall and blackmun fighting mad appear .
the four justices is no newcomers to dissent , forces often joining in the past decade the court 's conservative drift to criticize .
but in years past , they the trend always , have bucked and have been able a fifth vote to pick up a number of major victories in civil rights and liberties cases to eke out .
now , however , as the court 's new five-member conservative majority to solidify , continue victories for the liberals is rare .
the change is most dramatic for justice brennan , the last survivor of the mid-1960s liberal majority under chief justice earl warren .
in the seven supreme court terms from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1967 , the height of the warren court 's power , justice brennan only 25 dissenting votes cast in 555 cases decided by the court .
last term alone he 52 dissenting votes cast in 133 decisions , with the contentious flag-burning ruling as his only big victory .
but justice brennan his new role , foresaw the importance of dissents strongly defending in a 1985 speech .
he `` each time the court an issue , revisit the justices the fundamental questions to reconsider and the result , to rethink will be forced by a dissent '' said .
in recent months he that when he was on the winning side in the 1960s , he that the tables might turn in the future knew moreover , have said .
he that he justice john harlan how felt , now know have said a reference to the late conservative justice who was the most frequent dissenter from the warren court 's opinions .
associates of 81-year-old justice marshall he was `` depressed '' about the court 's direction last spring , but is feisty about his role and determined to speak out against the court 's cutbacks in civil rights say .
he `` we it could sweep under the rug and it , hide but i it , to do be not going '' said in a speech last month .
he , like justice brennan , dissents highly important for the future , consider a point that legal scholars have n't escaped .
harvard law school professor laurence tribe a `` generation-skipping '' flavor there is to current dissents say .
he say , the dissenters in the warren court , to be writing for the short-term , that the court 's direction might change soon suggesting appeared .
he `` brennan and marshall is speaking in their dissents to a more distant future , '' say .
justice blackmun , who 81 will turn next month , feisty about his new role also seem .
associates he some defeats especially attempts the right to abortion first recognized in his 1973 opinion , roe vs. wade to curtail take more personally than his colleagues , say .
friends and associates who justice blackmun saw during the summer he was no more discouraged about the court than in recent years said .
and his outlook improved after successful cataract surgery in august .
but his level of frustration showed in a recent , impassioned speech to a group of hundreds of lawyers in chicago .
he his remarks concluded by the late martin luther king 's famous `` i a dream have '' speech from the 1963 march on washington quoting emotionally and at some length , , according to those present , .
justice stevens , 69 , is probably the most philosophical of the dissenters about his role , in part because he may be the least liberal of the four , but also because he the intellectual challenge of arguing with the majority enjoy more than the others .
court watchers if the role these four dissenters is assuming is a familiar one in modern supreme court history , it also differ in an important way from recent history , say .
`` the dissenters of the warren court a legal legacy they that inherited , was often defending '' say prof. a.e. dick howard of the university of virginia law school , `` but the dissenters today a legacy they that created is defending .
the government the deposits of four savings-and-loan institutions , sold in its first wave of sales of big , sick thrifts , but low bids the sale of a fifth prevented .
the four s&ls was sold to large banks , as was the case with most of the 28 previous transactions initiated by the resolution trust corp. since it was created two months ago in the s&l bailout legislation .
two of the four big thrifts to ncnb corp. , charlotte , n.c. , which its markets , have aggressively expanded particularly in texas and florida were sold .
a canadian bank another thrift , bought in the first rtc transaction with a foreign bank .
under these deals , the rtc just the deposits and the healthy assets sell .
these `` clean-bank '' transactions the bulk of bad assets , mostly real estate , leave with the government , to be sold later .
in these four , for instance , the rtc is stuck with $ 4.51 billion in bad assets .
acquirers premiums ranging from 1.5 % to 3.7 % paid for the deposits and branch systems , roughly in line with what analysts were expecting .
the buyers will also be locked into deposit rates for just two weeks , as has been the case with previous deals .
after that , the buyers the rates paid by the former thrifts may repudiate .
but it be uncertain whether these institutions those steps will take .
ncnb , for example , has been one of the highest rate payers in the texas market , and in florida , rates is especially sensitive in retirement communities .
the rtc five thrifts had previously targeted for quick sales in order cash to spend by certain budgetary deadlines , but the delays the tough chore the agency facing illustrate .
bert ely , an industry consultant based in alexandria , va `` these thrifts is beached whales , '' said .
for example , the delay in people 's heritage savings , salina , kan. , with $ 1.7 billion in assets , selling the rtc the thrift selling off branch-by-branch , instead of as a whole institution to consider have forced .
ncnb its foray into the florida and texas markets continued .
ncnb university federal savings association , houston , which assets of $ 2.8 billion had will acquire .
ncnb texas national bank a premium of $ 129 million will pay the rtc for $ 3.5 billion in deposits .
as a measure of the depths to which the texas real estate market have sunk , the rtc $ 3.8 billion will pay to ncnb $ 750 million of bad assets to take .
ncnb freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , which total assets of $ 900 million had also acquired .
ncnb a premium of $ 40.4 million will pay the rtc for $ 1.1 billion in deposits .
ncnb from the rtc , which $ 875 million in assistance will require $ 266 million of freedom 's assets will also acquire .
meridian bancorp inc. , reading , pa. , hill financial savings association , red hill , pa. , which $ 2.3 billion in assets had will acquire .
meridian a premium of $ 30.5 million will pay $ 2 billion in deposits to assume .
it $ 845 million of the thrift 's assets , will also purchase with $ 1.9 billion in rtc assistance .
in the first rtc transaction with a foreign buyer , royal trustco ltd. , toronto , pacific savings bank , costa mesa , calif. , which $ 949 million in assets had will acquire .
royal trustco $ 25 million will pay the rtc $ 989 million in deposits to assume .
it $ 473 million in assets , will also purchase and $ 550 million in assistance receive from the rtc .
the following issues was recently filed with the securities and exchange commission :
pacificare health systems inc. , proposed offering of 1.5 million common shares , of which 700,000 shares will be offered by pacificare and 800,000 shares by unihealth america inc . ( pacificare 's 71 % ) , via dillon , read & co. inc. , goldman , sachs & co. and dean witter reynolds inc .
in a move the costs of new subscribers , wooing to reduce time magazine , its circulation guarantee to advertisers is lowering for the second consecutive year , its subscription rates increasing and cutting back on merchandise giveaways .
in an announcement to its staff last week , executives at time warner inc. 's weekly magazine `` time its use of electronic giveaways such as telephones in television subscription drives will dramatically de-emphasize '' ; the circulation it advertisers guarantee cut by 300,000 , to four million ; and the cost of its annual subscription rate increase by about $ 4 to $ 55 said .
in a related development , for the fourth year in a row , the news-weekly , it its advertising rates wo n't increase in 1990 said ; a full , four-color page in the magazine about $ 120,000 cost .
however , because the guaranteed circulation base is being lowered , ad rates will be effectively 7.5 % higher per subscriber , according to richard heinemann , time associate publisher .
time the course of some other mass-circulation magazines in recent years that the publishing myth that artificially high , and expensive , circulations maintaining is the way advertisers to draw have challenged is following .
in recent years , reader 's digest , new york times co. 's mccall 's , and most recently news corp. 's tv guide , their massive circulation rate bases have cut marginal circulation to eliminate and rates for advertisers hold down .
deep discounts in subscriptions and offers of free clock radios and watches accepted forms of new subscribers attracting have become in the hyper-competitive world of magazine news-weeklies .
but as part of the more cost-conscious time warner , time , itself to wean away from expensive gimmicks want .
time executives a news magazine selling with a clock radio is tacky besides , think .
mr. heinemann `` giveaways the wrong image , just give people '' said .
`` that perception the focus take off the magazine '' .
time magazine executives the circulation cut predictably paint as a show of strength and actually a benefit to advertisers .
mr. heinemann `` what we are doing the readers who are only casually related to the magazine and it , do n't really read screening out is '' said .
`` we quality and involvement to create is trying '' .
time executives the same explanation however , used in october 1988 the magazine its guaranteed circulation when cut from 4.6 million to 4.3 million .
and according to audit bureau of circulations , time 's paid circulation , 7.3 % dropped to 4,393,237 in the six months ended june 30 , 1989 .
time 's move still , is being received well , once again .
michael drexler , national media director at bozell inc. ad agency `` it be terrific for advertisers the reader more , will be paying to know '' said .
`` a few drops in circulation is of no consequence .
it be not a show of weakness ; they the quality of circulation is improving while their profits insuring . ''
mr. heinemann the changes a new focus in the magazine industry : a magazine 's net revenue per subscriber , or the actual revenue from subscribers after discounts and the cost of premiums have been stripped away represent said .
mr. heinemann `` the question how much we is getting from each reader , is '' said .
time 's rivals news-weeklies , washington post co. 's newsweek and u.s. news & world report , is less reliant on electronic giveaways , and in recent years both their circulation rate bases have been increasing .
both magazines their ad rates and circulation levels for 1990 to announce within a month is expected .
the news when broke two weeks ago , of an attempted coup in panama sen. christopher dodd the state department called for a briefing .
' he `` they cnn , follow said , ` '' reporters told .
that ted turner 's cable news network how far have come since its birth nine years ago , it the laughingstock of television news when was considered show .
it is bigger , faster and more profitable than the news divisions of any of the three major broadcast networks .
its niche as the `` network of record '' during major crises elite audiences draw around the world .
but for all its success , cnn a plateau have hit .
although viewership soars big news when break , it ebb during periods of calm .
cnn executives that the network 's punchy but repetitive news format stale may be getting and wo n't keep viewers coming back as the alternatives multiply for news and information on cable-tv worry .
ed turner , cnn 's executive vice president , news gathering ( and no relation to ted turner ) `` just the fact we be on 24 hours is no longer bulletin , '' say .
cnn , a unit of atlanta-based turner broadcasting system inc. , itself to reposition as a primary channel , or people in the television industry what a `` top of mind '' network call so is trying .
tonight , the effort , to kick off cnn its first prime-time newscast in years , an hourlong show at 6 p.m . eastern time to air head-to-head against the network newscasts will premiere .
the show will be co-anchored by bernard shaw and catherine crier , a 34-year-old former texas judge and campus beauty queen who a job in television or journalism have never held .
the new show is perhaps the boldest in a number of steps the network audience loyalty to build by shifting away from its current format toward more full-length `` signature '' programming with recognizable stars is taking .
itself , to distinguish cnn international coverage is also expanding and a second global-news program adding .
it higher salaries is paying -- after years of scrimping -- experienced staffers to lure and keep .
and it is embarking on an expensive gamble major stories to break with a large investigative-reporting team .
`` the next stage beyond the opinion leaders who us use as a point of reference a point of reference to become at ordinary dinner tables , to get is '' says jon petrovich , executive vice president of headline news , cnn 's sister network .
like other consumer products , networks , images in peoples ' minds that are n't easy to change develop .
it money that cnn has been reluctant to spend also take programs to make and talent viewers that to see will tune in specially hire .
and the cable-tv operators -- cnn 's distributors and part owners -- like things just the way they is .
the repositioning bid is aimed at cnn 's unsteady viewership -- and what may happen to it as the cable-tv news market more competitive grows .
cnn stronger competition from financial news network inc. and general electric co. 's consumer news and business channel , both of which are likely more general news to pursue in the future already , is facing .
in addition , many cable-tv systems themselves more local and regional news programs produced by local broadcast stations is airing .
cnn its viewers ' habits to change want .
its watchers is , on the whole , a disloyal group of channel-zapping `` grazers '' and news junkies , who an average of just 26 minutes a day cnn , watching spend according to audience research .
that be less than one-third the time viewers the major broadcast networks that watch .
the brief attention viewers cnn give it could put at a disadvantage as ratings data , and advertising , more important to cable-tv channels become .
cnn 's viewer habits have been molded by its format .
its strategy in the past to serve as a tv wire service have been .
it as events place took it live so could go quicker and longer than other networks focused on building up its news bureaus around the world , .
it its daily schedule filled with newscasts `` daybreak , '' `` daywatch , '' `` newsday , '' and `` newsnight , '' called but the shows little varied in content , personality or look .
now , the push is on for more-distinctive shows .
paul amos , cnn executive vice president for programming `` our goal more programs with an individual identity , to create is '' say .
mr. amos cnn a world-affairs show in the morning accordingly , is adding because surveys its global-news hour in the afternoon is among its most `` differentiated '' programs in viewers ' minds , show say .
and it other original programs , similar to its `` larry king live '' and `` crossfire '' talk shows , which executives will keep people tuned in hope is exploring .
`` the world today , '' the prime-time newscast mr. shaw and ms. crier featuring then there be .
until now , cnn its hollywood gossip show have featured during the key evening period .
the network but 70 % of the cable-television-equipped households that news watch do so between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. , discovered , so cnn want in .
mr. amos the shaw-crier team two live interviews a day , will probably do with at least for now , most of the program , similar to cnn 's other newcasts appearing say .
reuven frank , the former two-time president of nbc news and creator of the huntley-brinkley report `` i hard it to conceive of people switching over to cnn for at least in the public 's mind , what , is the same news , find '' say .
the evening news is also slated as cnn 's stage for its big push into investigative journalism .
in august , the network award-winning producer pamela hill , the former head of news specials at abc hired .
she a staff of about 35 investigative reporters who weekly , in-depth segments , will produce with an eye toward big stories breaking be assembling .
cnn executives the headlines created by such scoops excitement will generate for its `` branded '' programs , in the way `` 60 minutes '' did so well for cbs hope .
that be such a departure from the past that many in the industry are skeptical cnn will follow through with its investigative commitment , after it the cost of in-depth pieces producing especially see .
michael mosettig , a senior producer with macneil-lehrer newshour , who that cnn is indispensable to his job notes `` they any inclination money to spend on production , have never shown '' say .
the network 's salaries resulting in a less-experienced work force have always ranged far below industry standards , .
cnn raises of as much as 15 % , recently gave most employees but they 're still drastically underpaid compared with the networks .
mr. mosettig `` cnn is my wire service ; they be on top of everything say : .
but to improve , they the investment in people to make have really got '' .
in any case , cable-tv-system operators reason any tinkering with cnn 's format to fear have .
they cable-tv market on the very grazing opportunities cnn to discourage seek .
robert stengel , senior vice president , programming , of continental cablevision inc. , which a 2 % stake in turner broadcasting hold `` we would obviously be upset if those kinds of services evolved into more general-interest , long-format programming , '' say .
the second u.s. circuit court of appeals opinion in the arcadian phosphate case the position pennzoil co. took in its dispute with texaco , did not repudiate contrary to your sept. 8 article `` court texaco 's view back too late in pennzoil case -- '' .
the fundamental rule of contract law applied to both cases that courts agreements to which the parties to be bound did not intend will not enforce was .
in the pennzoil/texaco litigation , the courts pennzoil and getty oil to be bound intended found ; in arcadian phosphates they no intention to be bound there was found .
admittedly , the principle in the cases is the same .
but the outcome of a legal dispute almost always turn on the facts .
and as found by the various courts in these two lawsuits , the facts , was different .
valley federal savings & loan association imperial corp. of america its application five valley federal branches , to buy withdrew from regulators the transaction leaving in limbo said .
the broken purchase appear as additional evidence of trouble at imperial corp. , whose spokesman the company its application withdrew from the federal office of thrift supervision because of an informal notice that imperial 's thrift unit community reinvestment act requirements to meet failed said .
the community reinvestment act savings and loan associations money to lend in amounts related to areas deposits where is received require .
announced in august , the transaction , about $ 146 million in deposits at the five outlets in california 's san joaquin valley included .
terms was n't disclosed , but valley federal it a modest pretax gain to post and about $ 2 million in operating costs to save annually expected had said .
valley federal that it whether another buyer for the branches to seek or the transaction with imperial corp. , which it community reinvestment act requirements to meet is attempting said to pursue is considering said friday .
valley federal , with assets of $ 3.3 billion , is based in van nuys .
imperial corp. , based in san diego , is the parent of imperial savings & loan .
in the first six months of the year it a net loss of $ 33.1 million posted .
it the `` we be too broke to fight '' defense call .
lawyers for dozens of insolvent savings and loan associations a new tack is trying in their efforts suits filed by borrowers , developers and creditors to defuse .
the thrifts ' lawyers that the suits , 700 to 1,000 numbering in texas alone , should be dismissed as moot because neither the s&ls nor the extinct federal savings and loan insurance corp. the money judgments to pay have claim .
though the argument a common-sense ring may have to it , even the s&l lawyers little precedent their position to back there be concede .
one federal appeals court it be willing the notion , to entertain still , have signaled and the lawyers their arguments have renewed in texas and eight other states the defense where is permitted under state law .
the dismissal of the pending suits a long way could go toward court dockets in texas clearing and the fslic 's massive legal bills , which $ 73 million topped last year reducing .
the s&l lawyers was encouraged last month by an appellate-court ruling in two cases brought against defunct sunbelt savings & loan association of dallas by the developers of the valley ranch , best known as the training center for the dallas cowboys football team .
sunbelt foreclosed on the ranch .
sunbelt and the fslic `` that there will never be any assets with which a judgment against sunbelt savings to satisfy nor any means to collect from any other party , including fslic '' argued to the fifth u.s. circuit court of appeals .
`` if true , '' the court wrote , `` this contention dismissal of these actions would justify on prudential grounds '' .
but the court it enough financial information about sunbelt and the fslic lacked said and the cases sent back to federal district court in dallas .
charles haworth , a lawyer for sunbelt , he a brief to file this week the district judge the suits , to dismiss urging plan because sunbelt 's liabilities its assets exceeded by about $ 2 billion federal regulators it when closed in august 1988 say .
mr. haworth , a partner in the dallas office of andrews & kurth , a houston law firm `` this institution is just brain dead , '' say .
but a lawyer for triland investment group , the developer of valley ranch , such arguments dismiss as a `` defense du jour '' .
attorney richard jackson of dallas a judgment for triland could be satisfied in ways other than a monetary award , including the reversal of sunbelt 's foreclosure on valley ranch say .
he `` we the court be asking for a number of things he can grant in addition to the thrill of victory , '' say .
`` we the valley ranch 'd take free and clear as a booby prize .
kenneth j. thygerson , who president of this thrift holding company was named in august , personal reasons citing resigned , .
mr. thygerson he to travel between the job in denver and his san diego home , had planned but the commute too difficult to continue has found said .
a new president was n't named .
south africa the anc 's sisulu and seven other political prisoners freed .
many flags of the outlawed african national congress , brandishing thousands of supporters , a tumultuous reception gave the anti-apartheid activists upon their return to black townships across the country .
the 77-year-old sisulu , sentenced along with black nationalist nelson mandela to life in 1964 for the government , to overthrow plotting equality for blacks in south africa was in reach said .
the releases , announced last week by president de klerk , was viewed as pretoria 's tacit legalization of the anc .
mandela , the most prominent leader of the anc , considered remain in prison .
but his release within the next few months is widely expected .
the soviet union that thousands of tons of goods widespread shortages across the nation to ease needed was piled up at ports and rail depots , and food shipments was rotting because of a lack of people and equipment the cargo to move reported .
strikes and mismanagement was cited , and premier ryzhkov warned of `` tough measures '' .
bush there might be `` room for flexibility '' in a bill federal funding of abortions for poor women who are vicitims of rape and incest to allow indicated .
he his opposition to such funding , reiterated but hope of a compromise expressed .
at a news conference friday , the president , a call for the ouster of panama 's noriega also renewed .
the white house minors any right to abortion without the consent of their parents have n't said .
the administration 's policy was stated in a friend-of-the-court brief the supreme court more leeway abortions to restrict to give states urging .
the justice department that the fbi the authority u.s. fugitives to seize overseas without the permission of foreign governments have been given announced .
secretary of state baker that the new policy would n't be invoked by the bush administration without full consideration of foreign-policy implications emphasized friday .
nasa the space shuttle atlantis ready for launch tomorrow following a five-day postponement of the flight because of a faulty engine computer pronounced .
the device was replaced .
the spacecraft 's five astronauts the galileo space probe to dispatch on an exploration mission to jupiter is .
south korea 's president roh for a five-day visit that to focus on ties between washington and seoul is expected traveled to the u.s. .
roh , who calls for the reduction of u.s. military forces in south korea , is facing to meet with bush tomorrow is and a joint session of congress to address on wednesday is .
china 's communist leadership the party to purge of `` hostile and anti-party elements '' and wealthy private businessmen , they whom exploiters called voted .
reported by the official xinhua news agency , the decision , that the crackdown prompted by student-led pro-democracy protests in june is intensifying indicated .
hundreds of east germans the number of emigres to flee to the west beginning today expected bringing to more than 1,200 flocked to bonn 's embassy in warsaw , .
more than 2,100 others escaped to west germany through hungary over the weekend .
in leipzig , activists street protests internal change to demand to continue vowed .
zaire 's president mobutu met in southern france with angolan rebel leader savimbi and a senior u.s. envoy in a bid an accord angola 's civil war to end to revive .
details of the talks , described by a zairean official as `` very delicate , '' was n't disclosed .
plo leader arafat insisted on guarantees that any elections in the israeli-occupied territories would be impartial .
he his remarks made to a plo gathering in baghdad .
in the occupied lands , underground leaders of the arab uprising a u.s. plan israeli-palestinian talks to arrange rejected as shamir such discussions holding in cairo opposed .
lebanese christian lawmakers proposals for a new timetable for the withdrawal of syria 's forces from lebanon presented to arab mediators at talks in saudi arabia .
a plan currently under study two years to pull back to eastern lebanon , starting from the time beirut 's legislature political power for moslems increase give damascus .
hurricane jerry the texas-louisiana coast to swamp to combine with the highest tides of the year threatened .
thousands of residents of low-lying areas to evacuate was ordered as the storm headed north in the gulf of mexico with 80 mph winds .
a group of arby 's franchisees they an association miami beach financier victor posner 's control of the restaurant chain to oppose formed said .
the decision is the latest move in an escalating battle between the franchisees and mr. posner that began in august .
at the time , a group r.b. partners ltd. , called consisting of eight of arby 's largest franchisees , more than $ 200 million offered arby 's inc. , which is part of dwg corp to buy .
dwg is a holding company controlled by mr. posner .
leonard h. roberts , president and chief executive officer of arby 's , one week later , was fired in a dispute with mr. posner .
friday , 42 franchisees the formation of an association -- a.p. association inc. called -- `` the integrity of the arby 's system to preserve '' announced .
the franchisees , owners or operators of 1,000 of the 1,900 franchised arby 's in the u.s. , `` we that continued control of arby 's by victor posner is totally unacceptable to us , because it is extremely likely irreparable damage to the arby 's system to cause have concluded said : .
we all efforts victor posner to remove from control of arby 's inc. and the arby 's system support '' .
the group it royalty payments withholding and a class-action lawsuit court approval for the withholdings seeking initiating would consider , among other things , said .
in florida , renee mottram , a senior vice president at dwg , `` we any individual or group a winning system should disrupt or illegally interfere with existing contractual relationships for their own self-serving motives do n't think responded : .
september 's steep rise in producer prices that inflation still persist , show and the pessimism over interest rates caused by the new price data contributed to the stock market 's plunge friday .
after falling for three consecutive months , the producer price index for finished goods 0.9 % shot up last month , the labor department reported friday , as energy prices jumped after tumbling through the summer .
although the report , which was released before the stock market opened , the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average , did n't trigger analysts it a role did play in the market 's decline said .
analysts the price data , the grimmest inflation news in months , immediately viewed as evidence that the federal reserve was unlikely interest rates to fall to allow as many investors had hoped .
the belief that pressures in the economy was sufficient the fed to keep from credit , easing further fueling the commerce department that retail sales 0.5 % grew in september , to $ 145.21 billion reported friday .
that rise came on top of a 0.7 % gain in august , and healthy consumer demand in the economy there is still suggested .
robert dederick , chief economist at northern trust co. in chicago `` i the friday report , combined with the actions of the fed , the belief that to be an imminent easing of monetary policy , there was going weakened think '' said .
but economists was divided over the extent of the inflation threat signaled by the new numbers .
gordon richards , an economist at the national association of manufacturers `` the overall 0.9 % increase is serious in itself , but what is even worse that excluding food and energy , the producer price index still increased by 0.7 % , is '' said .
but sung won sohn , chief economist at norwest corp. in minneapolis , rising energy prices and the annual autumn increase in car prices blamed for most of the september jump .
he `` i would say this is not bad news ; this is a blip , '' said .
`` the core rate is not really out of line '' .
all year , energy prices the producer price index , which changes in the prices producers receive for goods measure have skewed .
inflation unquestionably have fallen back from its torrid pace last winter , a steep run-up in world oil prices when sent the index surging at double-digit annual rates .
energy prices the index to decline for three consecutive months causing then plummeted through the summer , .
the labor department the index overall , have climbed at a 5.1 % compound annual rate since the start of the year , said .
this year 's good inflation news moreover , may have ended last month , energy prices 6.5 % when zoomed up after 7.3 % plunging in august .
some analysts oil prices relatively stable the future pace of inflation uncertain leaving to remain in the months ahead , expect .
analysts that the climb in oil prices last month would lead to a substantial rise in the producer price index , had expected but the 0.9 % climb was higher than most anticipated .
john mueller , chief economist at bell mueller cannon , a washington economic forecasting firm `` i the resurgence -lcb- in inflation -rcb- to continue for a few months , is going think '' said .
he that inflation will moderate next year , that credit conditions is fairly tight world-wide saying predicted .
but dirk van dongen , president of the national association of wholesaler-distributors , that `` last month 's rise is n't as bad an omen '' as the 0.9 % figure suggest said .
he `` if you the data examine carefully , the increase is concentrated in energy and motor vehicle prices , rather than being a broad-based advance in the prices of consumer and industrial goods , '' explained .
passenger car prices 3.8 % jumped in september , after 0.5 % climbing in august and declining in the late spring and summer .
many analysts the september increase was a one-time event , coming as dealers their 1990 models introduced said .
although all the price data was adjusted for normal seasonal fluctuations , car prices rose beyond the customary autumn increase .
prices for capital equipment a hefty 1.1 % rose in september , while prices for home electronic equipment 1.1 % fell .
food prices 0.6 % , declined after 0.3 % climbing in august .
the retail sales report that car sales 0.8 % rose in september to $ 32.82 billion meanwhile , showed .
analysts but at least part of the increase could have come from higher prices , said .
sales at general merchandise stores 1.7 % rose after 0.6 % declining in august , while sales of building materials 1.8 % fell after 1.7 % rising .
producer prices for intermediate goods 0.4 % grew in september , after dropping for three consecutive months .
prices for crude goods , an array of raw materials , 1.1 % jumped after 1.9 % declining in august and 0.2 % edging up in july .
cityfed financial corp. it a loss of at least $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter to report expect said .
in the year-earlier period , cityfed net income of $ 485,000 , but no per-share earnings had .
cityfed 's president and chief executive officer , john atherton , the loss stem from several factors said .
he nonperforming assets rose to slightly more than $ 700 million from $ 516 million between june and september said .
approximately 85 % of the total consisted of nonperforming commercial real estate assets .
cityfed that it between $ 85 million and $ 110 million will provide for credit losses in the third quarter accordingly , estimated .
cityfed that significant additional loan-loss provisions may be required by federal regulators as part of the current annual examination of city federal savings bank , cityfed 's primary subsidiary , based in somerset , n.j added .
city federal 105 banking offices in new jersey and florida operate .
mr. atherton cityfed its portfolio of high-yield corporate bonds will also mark to market as a result of federal legislation that savings institutions themselves divest of such bonds requiring said .
cityfed said , that action , will result in a charge against third-quarter results of approximately $ 30 million .
cityfed it its remaining mortgage loan origination operations outside its principal markets in new jersey and florida to shed expect and , as a result , a charge for discontinued operations is taking also said .
mr. atherton said , all these actions , will result in a loss of $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter .
he `` depending on the resolution of certain accounting issues relating to mortgages servicing and the outcome of the annual examination of city federal currently in progress with respect to the appropriate level of loan loss reserves , the total loss for the quarter this range could significantly exceed added however , : .
centrust savings bank federal thrift regulators it dividend payments on its two classes of preferred stock , to suspend ordered that regulators ' concerns about the troubled institution have heightened indicating said .
in a statement , miami-based centrust the regulators the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent losses '' in its junk-bond portfolio cited in the suspension of the dividends ordering said .
regulators centrust the preferred stock buying back to stop also ordered .
david l. paul , chairman and chief executive officer , the federal office of thrift supervision , which the directive , issued criticized it was `` inappropriate '' and based on `` insufficient '' reasons saying .
he the thrift regulators the decision to reverse to get will try said .
the suspension of a preferred stock dividend is a serious step that that regulators deep concerns about an institution 's health have signal .
in march , regulators centrust a `` troubled institution , '' labeled largely because of its big junk-bond holdings and its operating losses .
in the same month , the office of thrift supervision the institution common stock dividends paying to stop until its operations was on track ordered .
for the nine months ended june 30 , centrust a net loss of $ 21.3 million , had compared with year-earlier net income of $ 52.8 million .
centrust , which is florida 's largest thrift , one of the largest junk-bond portfolios of any thrift in the nation hold .
since april , it its high-yield bond holdings have pared to about $ 890 million from $ 1.35 billion .
mr. paul only about $ 150 million of the current holdings are tradeable securities registered with the securities and exchange commission said .
he said , the remainder , is commercial loan participations , or private placements , that is n't filed with the sec and a ready market do n't have .
the office of thrift supervision centrust have been hounding current market values to provide for its holdings , but centrust it such values ca n't easily obtain because of the relative illiquidity of the bonds and lack of a ready market have said .
regulators increasingly antsy about centrust 's and other thrifts ' junk-bond holdings have become in light of the recent federal thrift bailout legislation and the recent deep decline in the junk-bond market .
the legislation thrifts themselves to divest of junk bonds in the new , somber regulatory climate require .
in american stock exchange composite trading friday , centrust common shares closed down 12.5 cents at $ 3 , .
in a statement friday , mr. paul the regulators ' decision , challenged `` the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent '' junk-bond losses have been substantially offset by gains in other activities of the bank '' saying .
he substantial reserves have been set aside for possible losses from the junk bonds also said .
in the third quarter , for instance , centrust $ 22.5 million added to its general reserves .
mr. paul the regulators should instead move ahead with centrust 's request 63 of its 71 branches to sell to great western bank , a unit of great western financial corp. based in beverly hills , calif approving said .
the branch sale is the centerpiece of centrust 's strategy from a high-flying institution that relied heavily on securities trading for profits , itself to transform into a traditional s&l according to mr. paul .
most analysts and thrift executives a decision on the proposed transaction , which was announced in july , had expected long before now .
many the delay interpret as an indication that regulators is skeptical about the proposal .
branches and deposits can be sold at a premium in the event federal regulators an institution take over .
centrust , the branch sale , however , tout it $ 150 million would bring in and the thrift 's assets reduce to $ 6.7 billion from $ 9 billion saying .
it the sale positive tangible capital of $ 82 million , or about 1.2 % of assets , would give it from a negative $ 33 million as of sept. 30 , centrust close to regulatory standards thus bringing said .
centrust the branch sale the company 's large amount of good will would also reduce by about $ 180 million said .
critics , the branch sale centrust more dependent than ever on brokered deposits and junk bonds will make however , say .
mr. paul counters that he the size of centrust to further pare by more than $ 1 billion of brokered certificates of deposit not renewing they due when come intend .
the thrift its junk-bond portfolio to unload by the bonds , to sell off continuing is also working and it some of them to eventually place in a separate affiliate , as required under the new thrift law plan .
on a recent saturday night , in the midst of west germany 's most popular prime-time show , a contestant the host that she any of 100 different cheeses could name after just one nibble , while blindfolded bet .
the woman the bet won .
but perhaps even more remarkable , the three-hour-show , `` wetten dass '' ( make a bet ) , the top slot in the country 's tv ratings , regularly win as many as 50 % of west german households sometimes drawing .
as the 1992 economic integration approaches , europe 's cultural curators quotas against such pop invaders as `` dallas , '' `` miami vice '' and `` l.a. law '' to impose threatening have taken to the ramparts against american `` cultural imperialism , '' .
but much of what the europeans to protect want every bit as cheesy as they what to keep out is trying seems .
the most militant opposition to american tv imports from french television and movie producers , who quotas that a full 60 % of europe 's tv shows be produced in europe ensuring have demanded have come .
the french enough broad-based support to prevail to win so far , have failed .
a glance through the television listings and a few twists of the european television dial one reason why suggest .
while some popular action and drama series , there is few the high culture and classy production values one might expect boast .
more european air time is filled with low-budget game shows , variety hours , movies and talk shows , many of which are authorized knock-offs of their american counterparts .
a flemish game show a belgian to be italian pretending have as its host .
one of italy 's favorite shows , `` fantastico , '' a tepid variety show , is so popular that viewers a chocolate product , `` cacao fantastico , '' whose praises was sung each week by dancing showgirls to buy clamored -- though the product even did n't exist .
the cheese stunt , topping on another typical evening of fun on `` wetten dass , '' a contestant a bet with the show 's host , thomas gottschalk , that he 300 german dialects could identify over the telephone won .
a celebrity guest , u.s. ambassador to west germany richard burt , a bet that someone $ 150 worth of quarters could pile up on a slanted coin also won .
mr. burt the penalty their combined weight in potato pancakes frying and selling to spend a day with west german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher agreeing nonetheless paid as if he had lost , .
if this seem like pretty weak stuff around which the protectionist barriers , to raise it may be because these shows all the protection they can get need .
european programs only their own local audience , and often only a small portion of that usually target .
mega-hits in germany or italy it rarely make even to france or great britain , and almost never show up on u.s. screens .
attempts `` pan-european '' programs to produce have generally resulted in disappointment .
one annual co-production , the three-hour-long `` eurovision song contest , '' soft-rock songs from each of 20 european countries , featuring have been described as the world 's most boring tv show .
another , `` jeux sans frontieres , '' villagers from assorted european countries fools pointless tasks , performing where make of themselves is a hit in france .
a u.s.-made imitation under the title `` almost anything goes '' flopped fast .
the cream of the british crop , the literary dramas that is shown on u.s. public television as `` masterpiece theater , '' a relatively small part of british air time make up .
most british programming is more of an acquired taste .
`` one man and his dog , '' a herding contest among sheep dogs there is , for instance , .
riveting to the british hours of dart-throwing championships , even more hours of lawn bowling contests and still more hours of snooker marathons also is .
european drama better , though still mixed , fortunes have had .
the most popular such shows focus on narrow national concerns .
a french knock-off of `` dallas , '' `` chateauvallon '' called and set in a french vineyard , a good run in france , which ended after the female lead was injured in a real-life auto accident had .
`` schwarzwaldklinik , '' ( black forest clinic ) , a kind of german `` st . elsewhere '' set in a health spa , is popular in germany , and has spread into france .
italy 's most popular series is a drama `` la piovra , '' or `` the octopus , '' called which the fight of an idealistic young investigator in palermo against the mafia chronicle .
it was front-page news in italy earlier this year the fictional inspector when was gunned down in the series .
spain 's most popular mini-series this year was `` juncal , '' the story of an aging bullfighter .
brian wenham , a former director of programs for the british broadcasting corp `` the trend is pretty well established now that local programs is the most popular , with american programs second , '' say .
`` given a choice , everybody a home-produced show will watch '' .
europe the recent crusade more worthy shows of its own , programs with broader appeal to produce thus , have begun .
colin young , head of britain 's national film theatre school `` we to start from scratch , writers and producers to train shows other people that to see , will want to make have basically got '' concede .
while some in the u.s. that advertising is the bane of television , contend here many that its absence to blame for the european tv industry 's sluggish development is believe .
until recently , national governments in europe most of the air time controlled and little or no advertising allowed .
since production costs was guaranteed , it did n't matter that a program could n't be sold abroad or put into syndication , as most american programs is .
but not much money a situation that cheap-to-make talk and game shows , encouraged while expensive-to-produce dramas discouraging was spent either , on the shows , .
commercial channels now , however , is coming to most european countries , and at the same time , satellite and cable technology is spreading rapidly .
just last week , greece two commercial channels authorized for the first time ; spain commercial television to allow alongside its state channels earlier began .
the result is a new and huge appetite for programming .
sky channel , a british-based venture of australian-american press tycoon rupert murdoch , what must be a baffling cultural mix to most of its audience offer .
the financially struggling station programs available obviously made cheaply from its boss 's other ventures offer .
in a madrid hotel room a viewer the end of a badly acted series about a fishing boat on australia 's great barrier reef , recently , caught `` to stay tuned for the further adventures of skippy the kangaroo '' only to be urged by the british announcer .
lisa grishaw-mueller in bonn , laura colby in milan , tim carrington in london and carlta vitzhum in madrid contributed to this article .
british aerospace plc and france 's thomson-csf s.a. they an agreement their guided-missile divisions , to merge is nearing collaboration between the two defense contractors greatly expanding said .
the 50-50 joint venture , which eurodynamics , may be dubbed combined annual sales of at least # 1.4 billion ( $ 2.17 billion ) would have and would be among the world 's largest missile makers .
after two years of talks , plans for the venture is sufficiently advanced for the companies french and british government clearance to seek .
the companies hope for a final agreement by year-end .
the venture the rapidly growing ties between the two companies , would strengthen and them a leading force in european defense contracting make help .
in recent months , a string of cross-border mergers and joint ventures the once-balkanized world of european arms manufacture have reshaped .
british aerospace and french government-controlled thomson-csf already , collaborate on a british missile contract and on an air-traffic control radar system .
just last week they they a joint bid ferranti international signal plc , a smaller british defense contractor rocked by alleged accounting fraud at a u.s. unit to buy may make announced .
the sudden romance of british aerospace and thomson-csf -- traditionally bitter competitors for middle east and third world weapons contracts -- controversy is stirring in western europe 's defense industry .
their respective national rivals , including matra s.a. in france and britain 's general electric co. plc most threatened would be by closer british aerospace-thomson ties .
but neither matra nor gec -- unrelated to stamford , conn.-based general electric co. -- their competitors forces as join is sitting quietly by .
yesterday , a source close to gec that his company the ferranti fight , may join as part of a possible consortium that would bid against british aerospace and thomson-csf confirmed .
companies with which gec talks about a possible joint ferranti bid have had matra , britain 's dowty group plc , west germany 's daimler-benz ag , and france 's dassault group include .
the source but it may be weeks before gec and its potential partners whether to bid , decide indicated .
gec ferranti 's financial accounts , which auditors # 215 million in fictitious contracts at a u.s. unit , international signal & control group , with which ferranti merged last year included recently said to study plan first .
any gec bid also , might be blocked by british antitrust regulators ; ferranti is gec 's main competitor on several key defense-electronics contracts , and its purchase by gec british defense ministry worries about concentration in the country 's defense industry may heighten .
a consortium bid , gec 's direct role in ferranti however , would diminish and ministry officials might consequently appease .
a british aerospace spokeswoman unperturbed by the prospect of a fight with gec for ferranti appeared : she `` competition is the name of the game , '' said .
at least one potential gec partner , matra , it is n't interested in ferranti insist .
a matra official `` we nothing about this affair , which us , do n't concern to say have '' said sunday .
the british aerospace spokeswoman said , the missile venture , is a needed response to the `` new environment '' in defense contracting .
for both thomson and british aerospace , earnings in their home markets have come under pressure from increasingly tight-fisted defense ministries ; and middle east sales , a traditional mainstay for both companies ' exports , have been hurt by five years of weak oil prices .
the venture 's importance for thomson is great .
thomson the future of its defense business depend on cooperation with other europeans building feel .
the european defense industry is consolidating ; for instance , west germany 's siemens ag gec recently joined in a takeover of britain 's plessey co. , and daimler-benz messerschmitt-boelkow blohm g.m.b . h . to buy agreed
in missiles , thomson is already overshadowed by british aerospace and by its home rival , france 's aerospatiale s.a. ; to better compete , thomson officials say , they a partnership need .
50-50 ownership of the planned venture , to justify thomson a cash payment would make to british aerospace .
a thomson spokesman annual revenue of british aerospace 's missile business is about # 950 million , said .
british aerospace 's chief missile products its 17-year-old family of rapier surface-to-air missiles include .
with about half british aerospace 's annual revenue , thomson missile products , the crotale surface-to-air missile family include .
interprovincial pipe line co. it a proposed two-step , 830 million canadian-dollar ( us$ 705.6 million ) expansion of its system will delay because canada 's output of crude oil is shrinking said .
interprovincial , canada 's biggest oil pipeline operator and a major transporter of crude to the u.s. , revised industry forecasts that canadian oil output about 1.64 million barrels a day 8 % lower than a previous estimate will total by 1991 , indicate said .
canadian crude production about 1.69 million barrels a day averaged during 1989 's first half , about 1 % below the 1988 level .
ronald watkins , vice president for government and industry relations with interprovincial 's parent , interhome energy inc `` the capability of existing fields oil to deliver is dropping , '' and oil exploration activity is also down dramatically , as many producers their emphasis shift to natural gas , said .
mr. watkins volume on interprovincial 's system is down about 2 % since january and to fall further , is expected expansion unnecessary until perhaps the mid-1990s making said .
he `` there has been a swing of the pendulum back to the gas side , '' said .
many of canada 's oil and gas producers the outlook for natural gas is better than it is for oil , say and their exploration and development budgets have shifted accordingly .
robert feick , manager of crude oil with calgary 's independent petroleum association of canada , an industry group the number of active drilling rigs in canada is down 30 % from a year ago , due to the increasing focus on gas exploration , and the number of completed oil wells is `` down more than that , '' said .
mr. watkins the main reason for the production decline is shrinking output of light crude from mature , conventional fields in western canada said .
interprovincial about 75 % of all crude produced in western canada , transport and almost 60 % of interprovincial 's total volume consist of light crude .
john lichtblau , president of the new york-based petroleum industry research foundation canada 's current oil exports to the u.s. about 600,000 barrels a day , or about 9.1 % of net u.s. crude imports , total said .
that canada rank as the fourth-largest source of imported crude , behind saudi arabia , nigeria and mexico .
mr. lichtblau canada 's declining crude output , combined with the fast-shrinking output of u.s. crude , u.s. reliance on oil from overseas , particularly the middle east intensify will help said .
`` it be very much a growing concern .
'' he but when something is inevitable , you to live with it , learn said .
mr. lichtblau that by itself the delay of interprovincial 's proposed expansion u.s. dependence on offshore crude , wo n't increase however , since canadian imports is limited in any case by canada 's falling output stressed .
under terms of its proposed two-step expansion , which regulatory approval , would have required interprovincial 200,000 barrels a day of additional capacity to add to its system , beginning with a modest expansion by 1991 intended .
the system a capacity of 1.55 million barrels a day currently have .
inland steel industries inc. that third-quarter earnings more than 50 % dropped from the previous quarter as a result of reduced sales volume and increased costs to report expect .
in the second quarter , the steelmaker net income of $ 45.3 million or $ 1.25 a share , had including a pretax charge of $ 17 million related to the settlement of a suit , on sales of $ 1.11 billion .
the company normal seasonal softness and lost orders caused by prolonged labor talks shipments reduced by 200,000 tons in the latest quarter , compared with the second quarter said .
at the same time , the integrated-steel business was hurt by continued increases in materials costs and repair and maintenance expenses , as well as higher labor costs under its new contract .
the service-center business was hurt by reduced margins and start-up costs associated with its joseph t. ryerson & son unit .
the company it some shipping-rate improvements to see in both the intergrated-steel and steel-service-center segments , which should result in improved results for the fourth quarter is beginning said .
inland its third-quarter results will be announced later this week said .
in the year-earlier third quarter , when the industry was in the midst of a boom , the company net of $ 61 million , or $ 1.70 a share , had on sales of $ 1.02 billion .
in july , the company wall street stunned with the prediction that growth in the personal computer business overall would be only 10 % in 1990 , a modest increase when compared with the sizzling expansion of years past .
-- this taking as a sign that a broad industry slump was in the offing -- investors reacted by the company 's stock , which $ 3.25 lost that day to close at $ 52 in national over-the-counter trading selling .
but that was all of three months ago .
last week , microsoft it revenue for its first quarter ended sept. 30 34 % to increase expect said .
the announcement the company 's stock $ 6.50 to surge to close at $ 75.50 a share caused .
microsoft 's surprising strength is one example of the difficulty investors looking for reassurances about the financial health of the computer firms facing .
peter rogers , an analyst at robertson stephens & co `` it be hard what to expect at this point , to know '' said .
`` the industry characterization defy '' .
to illustrate , mr. rogers that of the 14 computer-related firms he follow , half earnings below last year 's results , will report for their most recent quarter and half above those results said .
among those companies a down quarter to have expected hewlett-packard co. , amdahl corp. and sun microsystems inc. , generally solid performers in the past is .
international business machines corp. disappointing results to report also is expected .
apple computer inc. , improved earnings to show for the period ended sept meanwhile , is expected .
another contradictory message come from businessland inc. , a computer retailer .
in july , the company that booming sales of new personal computers from apple and ibm had resulted in net income more than doubling for its fourth quarter ended june 30 to $ 7.4 million , or 23 cents a share reported .
this month , businessland investors that results for its first quarter ended sept. 30 expectations had n't met however , warned .
the company it earnings of 14 to 17 cents a share , down from 25 cents a share in the year-earlier period expect said .
while the earnings picture confuse , observers the major forces the industry to shape in the coming year expected is clearer say .
companies to war over standards will continue .
in computer publishing , a battle over typefaces adobe systems inc. , which software that the image produced by printers and displays control sell is hurting .
until recently , adobe a lock on the market for image software , had but last month apple , adobe 's biggest customer , and microsoft rebelled .
the two firms now is collaborating on an alternative to adobe 's approach , and analysts they is likely ibm , the biggest seller of personal computers , to carry along with them say .
the short-term outlook for adobe 's business , strong however , appear .
the company a new software program that 's being heralded as a boon for owners of low-end printers sold by apple to ship is beginning .
the program is aimed at the quality of printed material improving .
john warnock , adobe 's chief executive officer , the mountain view , calif. , company 1,000 calls a day about the product have been receiving since it was demonstrated several weeks ago at a computer publishing conference said .
competition between various operating systems , which the basic functions of a computer , control trouble for software firms generally meanwhile , spell .
russ crabs , an analyst at soundview financial group `` it uncertainty create and sales , usually slow down '' said .
mr. crabs probably this is behind the expected weak performance of aldus corp. , maker of a widely used computer publishing program said .
he aldus earnings of 21 cents a share on revenues of $ 19.5 million for its third quarter , compared with earnings of 30 cents a share on revenue of 20.4 million in the year-earlier period to report expect .
aldus officials could n't be reached for comment .
on the other hand , the battle of the bus increasingly irrelevant to grow is expected .
a bus is the data highway within a computer .
ibm one type of bus microchannel , called is backing while the nine other leading computer makers , including h-p and compaq computer corp. , another method have chosen .
daniel benton , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co `` users do n't care about the bus , '' said .
he said for instance , apple 's family of macintosh computers , four different buses use `` and '' no one to mind seem .
the gap between winners and laggards will grow .
in personal computers , apple , compaq and ibm their hold on their business to tighten is expected .
at the same time , second-tier firms ground to lose will continue .
some lagging competitors the personal computer business even may leave altogether .
for instance , wyse technology , a candidate its troubled operation to sell is considered .
kimball brown , an analyst at prudential-bache securities `` wyse a distribution business , establishing have done well but they products that sell , have n't delivered '' said .
mr. brown wyse , whose terminals business is strong , a loss of 12 cents a share for its quarter ended sept will report estimate .
personal-computer makers to eat away at the business of more traditional computer firms will continue .
ever-more powerful desk-top computers , designed with one or more microprocessors as their `` brains , '' to increasingly take on functions carried out by more expensive minicomputers and mainframes is expected .
mr. benton `` the guys that traditional hardware make is really being obsoleted by microprocessor-based machines , '' said .
as a result of this trend , longtime powerhouses h-p , ibm and digital equipment corp. to counterattack with microprocessor-based systems of their own is scrambling .
but they to act quickly will have .
mr. benton compaq a family of high-end personal computers to unveil later this year that are powerful enough to serve as the hub for communications within large networks of desk-top machines expect .
a raft of new computer companies this `` server '' market also have targeted .
population drain end for midwestern states
iowa a comeback is making .
indiana , ohio and michigan so is .
the population of all four states is on the upswing , according to new census bureau estimates , following declines throughout the early 1980s .
to be sure , the gains , is rather small .
the census bureau for instance , iowa , its population grow by 11,000 people , or 0.4 % , between 1987 and 1988 , saw say .
still , even that modest increase is good news for a state that had n't grown at all since 1981 .
between 1987 and 1988 , north dakota was the only state in the midwest population , to lose a loss of 4,000 people .
the northeast its own have been holding in the population race .
seven of nine states including new york , which 4 % of its population lost during the 1970s have grown each year since 1980 , .
and although pennsylvania and massachusetts slight declines suffered earlier in the decade , they is growing again .
at the same time , several states in the south and west their own population turnaround have had .
seven states that grew in the early 1980s population is now losing -- west virginia , mississippi , louisiana , oklahoma , montana , wyoming and alaska .
the south and west the northeast and midwest , overall , though , still outpace and fast-growing states like florida and california that the pattern will continue ensure .
but the growth gap between the sun belt and other regions narrowing have clearly started .
thanks to modern medicine , more couples old is growing together .
a new census bureau study of the noninstitutionalized population that 64 % of people aged 65 to 74 was living up from 59 % in 1970 with a spouse in 1988 , show .
this they be less likely to live alone , do n't mean however .
that share have remained at about 24 % since 1970 .
in 1988 , 10 % of those aged 65 to 74 lived down from 15 % in 1970 with relatives other than spouses , .
as people even older , get many widowed become .
but even among those aged 75 and older , the share living with a spouse rose slightly , to 40 % in 1988 from 38 % in 1970 .
only 17 % of those aged 75 and older lived down from 26 % in 1970 with relatives other than spouses in 1988 , .
the likelihood of living alone beyond the age of 75 have increased to 40 % from 32 % .
more people independent is remaining longer presumably because they is better off physically and financially .
careers count most for the well-to-do
many affluent people personal success and money place above family .
two-thirds of respondents they the need to be successful in their jobs , strongly felt said while fewer than half they the need more time to spend with their families strongly felt said .
being successful in careers and the money they make spending are top priorities for this group .
unlike most studies of the affluent market , this survey the super-rich excluded .
average household income for the sample was $ 194,000 , and average net assets was reported as $ 775,000 .
the goal to learn about one of today 's fastest-growing income groups , the upper-middle class was .
although they only 2 % of the population , represent they nearly one-third of discretionary income control .
across the board , these consumers quality , value what they like just rather than what they need , buy and products that are distinctive appreciate .
despite their considerable incomes and assets , 40 % of the respondents in the study financially secure , do n't feel and one-fourth that they it have made do n't feel .
twenty percent they is financially well off do n't even feel .
about 40 % they be more able than others do n't feel .
while twothirds some guilt about being affluent , feel only 25 % $ 2,500 or more give to charity each year .
thirty-five percent religious services attend regularly ; at the same time , 60 % that in life one one 's principles to compromise sometimes have feel .
the number of women and minorities who jobs in top management in the nation 's largest banks hold have more than doubled since 1978 .
the american bankers association that women 47 % of officials and managers in the top 50 banks , up from 33 % in 1978 make up say .
the share of minorities in those positions have risen to 16 % from 12 % ... .
per-capita personal income in the u.s. grew faster than inflation last year , according to the bureau of economic analysis .
the amount of income divvied up for each man , woman and child was $ 16,489 in 1988 , up 6.6 % from $ 15,472 in 1987 .
per capita personal income ranged from $ 11,116 in mississippi to $ 23,059 in connecticut ... .
13.1 million students in college there is up 2 % from 1988 , this fall , the national center for education statistics estimates .
about 54 % is women , and 44 % is part-time students .
this small dallas suburb trouble 's got .
trouble with a capital t and that rhyme with p and that stand for pool .
prof. harold hill , the con man in meredith willson 's `` the music man , '' the citizens of river city , iowa , more than 30 years ago , warned against the game .
kindred spirits on addison 's town council the town 's fanciest hotel , the grand kempinski , now have barred from three free pool tables installing in its new lounge .
mayor lynn spruill and two members of the council they was worried about a precedent that pool halls would permit along addison 's main street setting said .
and the mayor , in an admonition that a rhythmic resemblance to prof. hill 's , bear that `` alcohol to betting , which lead to fights lead '' warned .
the council 's action is yet another blow to a sport that its fans claim has been maligned unjustly for years .
tom manske , vice president of the national pocket billiards association `` obviously they be not in touch with what 's going on , '' say .
pool is hot in new york and chicago , he insist , `` upscale , suit-and-tie places '' tables where is adding .
with today 's tougher drunk driving laws , he add , `` people to just sit around and drink do n't want '' .
rowdy behavior unlikely besides , seem at the grand kempinski , rooms $ 200 a night where average and the cheap mixed drinks go for $ 3.50 a pop .
at the lounge , manager elizabeth dyer patrons in jeans , t-shirts or tennis shoes wo n't admit .
but a majority of the addison council those arguments did n't buy .
pool , introducing councilwoman riley reinker , argued would be `` dangerous .
it a can of worms would open '' .
addison is no stranger to cans of worms , either .
after its previous mayor suicide committed last year , an investigation that town officials regularly voted on their own projects , special favors gave to developer friends and dipped into the town 's coffers for trips and retreats disclosed .
the revelations town officials , embarrassed although they that the problems was n't as severe as the media suggested argued .
the pool flap now come .
councilman john nolan `` i some people worried about something pretty ridiculous , there be think '' say .
`` i all this care was taken of in ` the music man thought .
the only thing robert goldberg could praise about cbs 's new show `` island son '' ( leisure & arts , sept. 25 ) was the local color ; neither he nor the producers of the show their homework unfortunately have done .
richard chamberlain a hawaiian shirt tucking in and its long sleeves rolling up dress as a `` mainland haole , '' .
and the local expression for brother is `` brah , '' not `` bruddah . ''
and if a nurse flowers even would wear in her hair while on duty , if she was engaged she them to wear behind her left , not right , ear would know .
sorry , the show the one redeeming quality of genuine local color do not even have .
or it so must seem to jackie mason , the veteran jewish comedian appearing in a new abc sitcom airing on tuesday nights ( 9:30-10 p.m. edt ) .
not only mr. mason is the star of `` chicken soup , '' he be also the inheritor of a comedic tradition dating back to `` duck soup , '' and he be currently a man in hot water .
in neutral language , the gist of mr. mason 's remarks , quoted first in the village voice while he was a paid spokesman for the rudolph giuliani mayoral campaign , and then in newsweek after he and the campaign company parted here , is .
mr. mason that many jewish voters guilty toward blacks , feel so they black candidates support uncritically said .
he that many black voters bitter feel about racial discrimination , so they , black candidates too , support uncritically said .
he that jews more have contributed to black causes over the years than vice versa said .
of course , mr. mason neutral language did not use .
as a practitioner of ethnic humor from the old days on the borscht belt , live television and the nightclub circuit , mr. mason instinctively reached for the vernacular .
he jews was `` sick with complexes '' said ; and he david dinkins , mr. giuliani 's black opponent , `` a fancy shvartze with a mustache '' called .
if mr. mason less derogatory language had used his amateur analysis of the voting behavior of his fellow new yorkers , to articulate would the water be quite so hot ?
because it few or none of the people upset by mr. mason 's remarks to distinguish between the substance of his comments and the fact that he insulting language used probably would , have bothered .
in addition , some of mr. mason 's critics that his type of ethnic humor is itself a form of racism have implied .
for example , the new york state counsel for the naacp that mr. mason is `` like a dinosaur said .
people the place he where is stuck is fast leaving '' .
these critics between the type of ethnic humor that aim at another group , disparaging such as `` polish jokes '' ; and the type that is double-edged , aiming inward as well as outward to distinguish fail .
typically the latter is the humor of the underdog , and it was perfected by both blacks and jews on the minstrel and vaudeville stage as a means of their white and gentile audiences along with themselves mocking .
in the hands of a zealot like lenny bruce , this double-edged blade both the self and the audience could cut to ribbons .
but wielded by a pro like jackie mason , it is a constructive form of mischief .
because despite all the media prattle about comedy and politics not mixing , they is similar in one respect : both can serve as mechanisms for tensions easing and the co-existence of groups in conflict facilitating .
that be why it be dangerous on college campuses and elsewhere , well-intentioned thought police , all critical mention of group differences taboo to have .
as elizabeth kristol wrote in the new york times just before the mason donnybrook , `` intolerance perhaps would not boil over with such intensity if honest differences to simmer was allowed '' .
the question if group conflicts still exist ( as they undeniably do ) , and if mr. mason 's type of ethnic humor is passe , we what other means then do have for steam letting off ? is ,
do n't say the tv sitcom , because that to be a genre in its desperate need everybody to attract and nobody , offend that , politics resembles more than it does comedy happen .
it is true that the best sitcoms group differences to simmer do allow : yuppies vs. blue-collar bostonians in `` cheers '' ; children vs. adults in `` the cosby show '' .
but these is not the differences that headlines make .
in `` chicken soup , '' mr. mason jackie , a jewish bachelor maddie ( lynn redgrave ) , an irish widow and mother of three , courting against the wishes of his mother ( rita karin ) and her brother michael ( brandon maggart ) play .
it 's worth noting that both disapproving relatives is immigrants .
at least , both they speak with strong accents , as jackie and maddie do .
it could n't be more obvious that `` chicken soup '' is being made from an old recipe .
and a safe one -- imagine if the romance in question was between an orthodox jew and a member of the nation of islam .
the play and movie versions of `` abie 's irish rose '' the theme of courtship between the assimilated offspring of jewish and irish immigrants so popular that its author , anne nichols , a plagiarism suit lost on the grounds that the plot the public domain have entered back in the 1920s , made .
and it have remained there , as evidenced by its reappearance in a 1972 cbs sitcom `` bridget loves bernie , '' called whose sole distinction that it led to the real-life marriage of meredith baxter and david birney was .
the question with `` chicken soup '' whether the pot will boil over , but whether it will simmer at all clearly , is not .
part of the problem is the tendency of all sitcoms , ever since the didactic days of norman lear , to preach about social issues .
to some extent , this tendency emerge the show us to enlighten about ethnic stereotypes by them reversing whenever try .
for instance , michael jackie dislike not because he be a shrewd jewish businessman , but because he his well-paying job as a salesman quit in order a social worker to become .
even more problematic the incompatibility between sitcom preachiness and mr. mason 's comic persona is .
the best moments in the show occur at the beginning and the end ( and occasionally in the middle ) , mr. mason when slip into his standup mode and starts that old-fashioned jewish mischief meting out to other people as well as to himself .
but these routines spark too often , lack because like all sitcoms , this sitcom , is timid about mr. mason 's stock in trade - ethnic differences confronting .
i that the producers episodes about topics like the catholic-jewish dispute over the carmelite convent at auschwitz putting together start be not suggesting .
like racial tensions in new york city , that issue , to cool down , not heat up , will have before it can simmer .
but i that they mr. mason with some line about `` caring for other people '' that shmaltzy would sound on the lips of miss america his classic shtik to interrupt requiring stop be suggesting .
the official white house reaction to a plunge in stock prices a 60-year history of calm , have right up through friday .
treasury secretary nicholas brady that `` the stock-market decline any fundamental change in the condition of the economy do n't signal '' said in a statement friday .
he added , `` `` the economy , '' well-balanced remain and the outlook is for continued moderate growth '' .
here be what ronald reagan said after the 1987 crash : `` the underlying economy sound remain .
nothing wrong with the economy there is ... all the indices is up '' .
after the 1929 crash , herbert hoover `` ... the fundamental business of the country is on a sound and prosperous basis said : .
james robinson , 57 years old , president and chief executive officer of this maker of magnetic recording heads for disk drives was elected .
charles j. lawson jr. , 68 , who had been acting chief executive since june 14 , will continue as chairman .
the former president and chief executive , eric w. markrud , resigned in june .
the senate 's decision a bare-bones deficit-reduction bill without a capital-gains tax cut to approve open the possibility of a gains tax reduction enacting this year still leave .
late friday night , the senate an estimated $ 13.5 billion measure that of hundreds of provisions that would have widened , rather than narrowed , the federal budget deficit had been stripped to approve voted 87-7 .
lawmakers the bill drastically streamlined criticism that it was bloated with special-interest tax breaks and spending increases to blunt .
senate budget committee chairman james sasser ( d. , tenn . ) `` we a deficit-reduction bill be putting back in the category of being a deficit-reduction bill , '' said .
but senate supporters of the trimmer legislation that other bills that some of the measures that had been cast aside , including a capital-gains tax cut could carry would soon be moving through congress said .
in addition , the companion deficit-reduction bill already passed by the house a capital-gains provision include .
house-senate negotiations is likely to begin at midweek and last for a while .
senate minority leader robert dole ( r. , kan . ) `` no one exactly what will happen on the house side , can predict '' said .
but , he added , `` i republicans and democrats capital-gains reform to get this year will work together believe '' .
white house budget director richard darman reporters that the administration the capital-gains cut to keep in the final version of the bill would n't push told yesterday .
he `` we this do n't need as a way capital gains , to get '' said .
house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) `` if that 's the signal that comes from the white house , that will help a great deal '' said in an interview , .
the senate 's decision was a setback for president bush and approval of a capital-gains tax cut less certain this year will make .
opponents of the cut hardball is playing .
senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) he was `` confident '' that any house-senate agreement on the deficit-reduction legislation a capital-gains tax cut would n't include said .
and a senior aide to the house ways and means committee , tax legislation where originate , any `` plans another tax bill that a gains tax cut could carry to produce this year '' there is n't said .
one obvious place a capital-gains tax cut , and perhaps other popular items stripped from the deficit-reduction bill , to attach is the legislation the federal borrowing limit to raise .
such legislation must be enacted by the end of the month .
the senate bill was pared back in an attempt deficit-reduction to speed through congress .
because the legislation have n't been completed , president bush across-the-board spending cuts mandated by the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law to enact have until midnight tonight .
senators that the need those cuts to avoid the house to agree to the streamlined bill will pressure hope .
the house reluctant the senators to join appear .
a key whether house republicans is willing to acquiesce to their senate colleagues ' decision many pet provisions to drop is .
`` although i be encouraged by the senate action , '' chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill . ) of the house ways and means committee , said `` it is uncertain whether a clean bill can be achieved in the upcoming conference with the senate . ''
another big question hovering over the debate what president bush think is .
he a stripped-down bill without a guaranteed vote on his capital-gains tax cut have been resisting .
but republican senators no way a procedural hurdle to overcome and the 60 votes the capital-gains issue to win on the floor , needed garner saw so they went ahead with the streamlined bill .
the senate bill was stripped of many popular , though revenue-losing , provisions , a number of which is included in the house-passed bill .
these a child-care initiative and extensions of soon-to-expire tax breaks for low-income housing and research-and-development expenditures include .
the house 's repeal of a law , section 89 , called that companies comparable health benefits to top paid executives to give rank-and-file workers compel also missing is from the senate bill .
one high-profile provision that was originally in the senate bill but was cut out because it money lost was the proposal by chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) of the senate finance committee the deduction for individual retirement accounts to expand .
mr. bentsen he the senate that measure will consider soon hope said .
to the delight of some doctors , the bill a plan passed by the finance committee that the entire physician-reimbursement system under medicare would have overhauled dropped .
to the detriment of many low-income people , efforts medicaid funding , especially in rural areas , to boost also was stricken .
senators so much , why was giving up asked new mexico sen. pete domenici , the ranking republican on the senate budget committee , `` we be looking like idiots said , .
things had just gone too far '' .
sen. dole that the move sacrifice by every senator required said .
it worked , others said , because no exceptions there was : all revenue-losing provisions was stricken .
the senate a plan by its finance committee that the income threshold beyond which senior citizens their social security benefits reduced have would have increased also dropped .
in addition , the bill a plan permanent a 3 % excise tax on long-distance telephone calls to make dropped .
it a plan that what remains of the completed-contract method of accounting , which their tax burden to reduce is used by military contractors would have repealed no longer include .
it a provision that corporations excess pension funds to use health benefits to pay for current retirees would have permitted also drop .
a fivefold increase in the maximum occupational safety and health administration penalties , which $ 65 million would have raised in fiscal 1990 also stricken was .
a provision that the social security administration an independent agency would have made was excised .
the approval of the senate bill was especially sweet for sen. mitchell , who the streamlining had proposed .
mr. mitchell 's relations with budget director darman , who pushed for a capital-gains cut to be added to the measure , have been strained since mr. darman the maine democrat to bypass and deal with other lawmakers chose earlier this year during a dispute over drug funding in the fiscal 1989 supplemental spending bill .
the deficit reduction bill $ 5.3 billion in tax increases in fiscal 1990 , and $ 26 billion over five years contain .
the revenue-raising provisions , which mostly corporations , affect would :
-- mutual funds dividends paid to them on the date the dividends that is declared rather than received , to include in their taxable income effective the day after the tax bill is enacted require .
the measure a 50 % exclusion given to banks on the interest from loans securities to acquire for an esop , used repeal if the esop less than 30 % of the employer 's stock own .
the measure spending cuts and increases in federal fees also include .
the plan a brief freeze would impose on physician fees next year .
a similar provision is in the house version .
-- authority for the federal aviation administration $ 239 million to raise by fees charging for commercial airline-landing rights at new york 's laguardia and john f. kennedy international airports , o'hare international airport in chicago and national airport in washington .
john e. yang contributed to this article .
in response to your overly optimistic , outdated piece on unemployment how long last ( people patterns , sept. 20 ) : i am in the communications field , above entry level .
i was laid off in august 1988 , and after a thorough and exhausting job search , was hired in august 1989 .
my unemployment insurance ran out before i a job found ; i cutbacks and layoffs found in many companies .
the statistics quoted by the `` new '' census bureau report ( garnered from 1984 to 1986 ) is out of date , certainly as an average for the northeast , and possibly for the rest of the country .
i what me bothered most about the piece that to be an underlying attitude your readers to tell all is well -- if you 're getting laid off do n't worry , and if you 're unemployed , it be a seller 's market there seemed was think .
your paper a serious reality check need .
bull hn information systems inc. is a u.s. majority-owned unit of cie. des machines bull .
in friday 's edition , the name of the unit was misstated .
moody 's investors service it its rating on $ 165 million of subordinated debt of this beverly hills , calif. , thrift , reduced turmoil in the market for low-grade , high-yield securities citing said .
the agency it its rating on the thrift 's subordinated debt reduced to b-2 from ba-2 and the debt will keep under review for possible further downgrade said .
columbia savings is a major holder of so-called junk bonds .
new federal legislation that all thrifts themselves divest of such speculative securities over a period of years require .
columbia savings officials was n't available for comment on the downgrade .
moody 's investors service inc. it its rating downgraded to b-2 from ba-3 on less than $ 20 million of this thrift 's senior subordinated notes said .
the rating concern franklin 's `` troubled diversification record in the securities business '' was one reason for the downgrade , the troubles at its l.f. rothschild subsidiary and the possible sale of other subsidiaries citing said .
franklin president duane h. hall `` they concern that we was getting out of all these , perhaps had '' said .
`` i it was a little premature on their part think .
it safe to go back into stocks , just when seemed wall street another severe attack of nerves suffered .
this another black monday is coming do signal ?
or this is an extraordinary buying opportunity , like oct. 19 , 1987 , to be just eventually turned out ?
`` i 'm the only one who there would be an october massacre , said all through late august and september , '' mr. granville , once a widely followed market guru and still a well-known newsletter writer say .
he `` everyone you that this time is different from 1987 , will tell '' say .
`` well , in some ways it is different , but technically it is just the same .
they me to get the hell out and stay out right now be telling .
i no major support until 2200 see .
i a possibility of going to 2200 this month see '' .
mr. granville he would n't even think of buying until at least 600 to 700 stocks 52-week lows have hit say ; about 100 stocks new lows hit friday .
he say , `` `` most people , '' no idea what like a massacre pattern look have '' .
ms. garzarelli a quantitative analyst with shearson lehman hutton inc. , clients their money to take out of the market before the 1987 crash had warned .
she say , `` friday 's big drop , was not a crash .
this was an october massacre '' like those that occurred in 1978 and 1979 .
now , as in those two years , her stock market indicators is positive .
so she the damage will be short-lived and contained think .
she `` those corrections lasted one to four weeks and the market took 10%-12 % down , '' say .
`` this is exactly the same thing , as far as i be concerned . ''
thus , she say , if the dow jones industrial average dropped below 2450 , `` it would just be a fluke .
my advice to buy is '' .
as she it , calculate the average stock now sell for about 12.5 times companies ' earnings .
she that ratio could climb to 14.5 , given current interest rates , and still be within the range of `` fair value '' say .
mr. davis , president of ned davis research inc friday 's fall the start of a bear market , mark say .
but mr. davis , whose views is widely respected by money managers , he no 1987-style crash expect say .
he `` a unique combination there was in 1987 , '' say .
`` margin debt was at a record high .
tremendous public enthusiasm for stock mutual funds there was .
the main thing was portfolio insurance , '' a mechanical trading system an investor to protect against losses intended .
a hundred billion dollars in stock was subject '' to it .
in 1987 , such selling contributed to a snowball effect .
today could even be an up day , mr. davis say , if major brokerage firms to refrain from program trading agree .
over the next several months , he things bad look though , say .
he `` i the market will be heading down into november , think '' say .
`` we a year-end rally , will probably have and then go down again .
he the downturn the dow jones industrial average to carry down to around 2000 sometime next year expect .
he `` that would be a normal bear market , '' say .
`` i that 's my forecast guess '' .
`` i the market is going through another october '87 do n't think .
'' mr. cooperman , a partner at goldman , sachs & co. and chairman of goldman sachs asset management i that be the case at all , do n't think say .
mr. cooperman this see as a good time bargains , to pick up but he any need to rush there be do n't think .
`` i the market weaker to open monday , expect but it some stability then should find '' .
he several major differences between now and two years ago tick off .
unlike 1987 , interest rates have been falling this year .
and unlike 1987 , the economy to be in any danger of overheating do n't appear .
he but the economy 's slower growth this year `` the outlook for corporate profits is n't good , '' also mean say .
`` so it be a very mixed bag . ''
thus , he conclude , `` this is not a good environment to be fully invested in stocks '' .
`` if i had come into friday on margin or with very little cash in the portfolios , i any buying would not do .
but we came into friday with a conservative portfolio , so i some modest buying to do '' on behalf of clients would look .
we to look for some of the better-known companies that got clocked '' friday be going .
mr. galbraith , an economist `` this is the latest manifestation of the capacity of the financial community for recurrent insanity , '' say .
he `` i this see as a reaction to the whole junk bond explosion , '' say .
`` the explosion of junk bonds and takeovers a lot of insecure securities have lodged in the hands of investors and the corporations that are the objects of takeovers or feared takeovers loaded with huge amounts of debt rather than equity .
both this investors uneasy and the corporations more vulnerable have made '' .
he a depression likely do n't appear nevertheless , say .
he `` more resiliency in the economy at large than we commonly suppose , there is '' say .
`` it more error take now a major depression to have than back in the thirties -- as the financial community and the government much may try '' .
new york money manager mario gabelli , an expert at takeover candidates , spotting that takeovers is n't totally gone say .
he `` companies companies to buy around the world , is still going '' say .
examples `` ford looking at jaguar , bellsouth looking at lin broadcasting '' is .
these sorts of takeovers junk bonds or big bank loans them , to finance do n't require so mr. gabelli figures they will continue .
`` the market was up 35 % since -lcb- president -rcb- bush office , took '' mr. gabelli say , so a correction to be expected was .
he another crash is `` unlikely , '' think and `` he was nibbling '' at selected stocks during friday 's plunge say .
he `` stocks that were thrown out just on an emotional basis is a great opportunity -lcb- this -rcb- week for guys like me , '' say .
`` it that this is the pin that the balloon , have finally pricked seem to me '' says mr. rogers , a professor of finance at columbia university and former co-manager of one of the most successful hedge funds in history , quantum fund .
he `` economic problems , financial problems '' ahead see for the u.s. , with a fairly strong possibility of a recession .
he `` friday you dollars , could n't sell '' say .
`` dealers a quote , would give you but the trade to make then refuse '' .
mr. rogers what to do today wo n't decide until he the london and tokyo markets how go see .
he that investors takeover-related stocks , sell but hang on to some other stocks -- especially utilities , which often do well during periods of economic weakness recommend .
many people the 1987 crash to have predicted now claim .
queens newsletter writer francis x. curzio it actually did : he that the dow jones industrial average was likely about 500 points to decline the following month stated in writing in september 1987 .
mr. curzio what happen now a good deal will depend on the federal reserve board say .
if it the discount rate it charge on loans to banks , promptly cut he say , `` that things could quiet down '' .
if not , `` we could go very soon to 2200 '' .
mr. terrizzi , president and managing director of renaissance investment management inc. in cincinnati `` stock prices some additional amount to go down would still have before we positive on stocks , become '' say .
renaissance , which about $ 1.8 billion , manages stiff criticism drew from many clients earlier this year because it pulled entirely out of stocks at the beginning of the year and a strong rally thus missed .
renaissance its money is keeping entirely in cash equivalents , primarily u.s. treasury bills .
he `` probably t-bills is the right place to be , '' say .
1 . that your sept. 28 editorial `` kangaroo committees '' was factually inaccurate and deliberately misleading .
i your editorial was factually accurate and deliberately elucidative thought .
2 . that mr. lantos the rights of the witnesses the fifth amendment to take supported .
yes , he did .
as i him watched on c-span , i him those lovely words about the bill of rights , which he quote from the transcript of the hearings speak heard .
he those nice platitudes did repeat several times as an indication of his support for the constitution .
he about 56 words the witnesses ' constitutional rights defending used .
by my rough guess , he better than 5,000 words scorn heaping on the witnesses for the fifth exercising unfortunately , used .
he his praise of constitutional meat sandwiched between large loaves of bilious commentary .
as your editorial rightly pointed out , `` samuel pierce , former hud secretary , and lance wilson , mr. pierce 's former aide , is currently being held up to scorn for the fifth amendment taking .
'' certainly that is not the supposed `` distorted reading '' indicated by mr. lantos .
3 . that `` his committee do not deal with any possible criminal activity at hud .
my colleagues and i we is not a court fully realize ... etc '' .
by any `` reasonable '' man criterion , mr. lantos and his colleagues a whole bunch of people have tried and convicted .
their verdict apparently , is in .
they evidence right now be pursuing .
that be not a bad way to proceed , just somewhat different from standard american practice .
that practice how was referred to when i was in school ?
of course , mr. lantos doth protest that his subcommittee information simply seek for legislative change .
everything mr. lantos that say in his letter is partially true .
he be right about his subcommittee 's responsibilities it when come information to obtaining from prior hud officials .
but if his explanation of motivation is true , his investigation why is so oriented as criminal activity to identify ?
no , mr. lantos 's complaints simply wo n't wash .
4 . that the journal `` the sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public that place took while mr. pierce was secretary of hud , '' defend etc. and so forth .
no , to my mind , `` the journal sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public trust did not defend ... ''
it appropriate constitutional safeguards and practical common sense defended .
the problem , which the journal so rightly pointed out in a number of articles , is not the likes of mr. lantos , after all who is really a bit player on the stage , but the attempt by congress itself to enhance into a quasi-parliamentary/judicial body .
( of course , we a judiciary that the same objective seek have also got ) .
the system is the problem , not an individual member .
individuals their hands slapped can always have .
it 's such slapping when do n't occur we trouble that have got .
by any means i hud management do not defend .
but i the kind of congressional investigation that has been pursued is a far greater danger to american notions of liberty and freedom than any incompetency ( and , yes , maybe criminality ) within hud could possibly generate think .
the last time i a similar congressional hearing saw was `` tail '' gunner joe mccarthy his work when did .
i disagree with the statement by mr. lantos that one against former hud officials who their fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination assert in congressional hearings an adverse inference should not draw .
the fifth amendment that `` no person to be a witness against himself shall be compelled , in any criminal case , '' state in relevant part .
this privilege against self-incrimination the drawing of an adverse inference against a criminal defendant who to testify choose not preclude .
in a criminal case , a prosecutor thus , can not comment on a defendant 's failure to testify nor the defendant the stand to take as a witness , him `` the fifth to take '' thus forcing can be compelled .
the privilege , the defendant to protect in criminal matters only however , have been limited in accordance with its plain language .
the supreme court and some states that `` the fifth amendment the inference do not preclude the privilege where is claimed by a party to a civil cause '' have specifically recognized .
in a civil case , a defendant he to testify or the fifth , take may be forced thus , may be called as a witness , and his taking of the fifth the drawing of an adverse inference against him in the civil matter may permit .
he the fifth may take in a civil matter if he a good faith and justifiable belief that his testimony him may subject to criminal prosecution only have .
is the defendant the fifth to take allowing in a civil matter not based on a constitutional right to testify to refuse one 's testimony him where harm in the civil matter , but because the testimony in the civil matter could be unconstitutionally used against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution .
a court absent the risk of such prosecution , the defendant to testify may order .
mr. pierce the fifth when asserted in a noncriminal proceeding , after extensive advice from legal counsel , particularly presumably receiving one that he a good-faith , justifiable belief that his testimony could be used against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution held thus , must conclude .
the subcommittee , congress and the american public every right the adverse inference to draw and to concur with mr. pierce 's own belief that his testimony him convict of a crime could help have .
it was friday the 13th , and the stock market nearly 200 points plummeted .
or triskaidekaphobia -- fear of the number 13 -- is justified ?
in academia , a so-called friday the 13th effect have been set up and shot down by different professors .
robert kolb and ricardo rodriguez , professors of finance at the university of miami , evidence that the market is spooked by friday the 13th found .
but their study , which the 1962-85 period , spanned to be jinxed by an unlucky choice of data have since been shown .
in the '70s , the market falls took nine times in a row on friday the you-know-what .
but the date to be a plus , not a minus , for stocks , tend according to yale hirsch , a collector of stock market lore .
another study that the 82 fridays the 13th in the 1940-1987 period higher than average returns -- higher even than fridays in general , which to be strong days for stock prices tend had found .
on the only other friday the 13th this year , the dow jones industrial average about four points rose .
professor kolb the original study , friday the 13th , part vii , titled was published tongue-in-cheek say .
in a similar vein , he that the anniversary of the 1987 crash and saturday 's full moon a part , could have played too , in friday 's market activity add .
reminiscent of those during the 1987 crash -- that as stock prices plummeted and trading activity escalated , some phone calls to market makers in over-the-counter stocks unanswered went .
robert king , senior vice president of otc trading at robinson-humphrey co. in atlanta `` we dealers their phones , to answer could n't get '' said .
`` it was -lcb- like -rcb- the friday before black monday '' two years ago .
whether unanswered phone calls any effect had or not , nasdaq stocks sank far less than those on the new york and american exchanges .
the nasdaq composite index its biggest point decline of the year and its sixth worst ever , nonetheless , suffered 14.90 , or 3 % , diving to 467.29 .
ten points of the drop occurred during the last 45 minutes of trading .
by comparison , the new york stock exchange composite 5.8 % tumbled friday and the american stock exchange composite 4 % fell .
on oct. 16 , 1987 , the nasdaq composite 16.18 points , or 3.8 % , fell followed three days later by its devastating 46.12-point , or 11 % slide , .
friday nasdaq volume 167.7 million shares , totaled which was only the fifth busiest day so far this year .
the single-day record of 288 million shares was set on oct. 21 ,
e.e. `` buzzy '' geduld , president of herzog , heine , geduld , a new york company that markets make in thousands of otc issues `` there was n't a lot of volume because it was just impossible to get stock moved , '' said .
mr. king of robinson-humphrey and others was quick that they the problem stemmed more from traders ' inability the volume of calls , to handle rather than a deliberate attempt trades making to avoid believe to add .
the subject is a sore one for nasdaq and its market-making companies , which was widely criticized two years ago following complaints from investors who their brokers could n't reach or trade in the chaos of the crash .
peter dapuzzo , head of retail equity trading at shearson lehman hutton , `` it was the last hour of trading on a friday declared : .
too many phones ringing and too many things happening there was market makers to be as efficient as robots to expect .
it was n't intentional , we was all busy . ''
james tarantino , head of otc trading at hambrecht & quist in san francisco , `` it was just like two years ago said , .
everybody the same thing to do at the same time was trying '' .
jeremiah mullins , the otc trading chief at dean witter reynolds in new york , that his company every order it received executed by the close of trading said proudly .
but , he added , `` you one call can only take at a time '' .
market makers supplies of stock keep on hand orderly trading to maintain imbalances when occur .
when selling is so frenzied , prices fall steeply and fast .
faced with the possibility of heavy losses on the stocks in their inventories , market makers themselves shares , dumping the slide in otc stock prices exacerbating two years ago , began .
traders on friday , some market makers was selling again , said .
but , with profits sagging on wall street since the crash , companies smaller share stockpiles have kept on hand .
mr. tarantino of hambrecht & quist some prices fell without trades place , taking as market makers the prices at which they shares would buy dropping kept said .
he `` everyone everyone else 's bid , was hitting '' said .
while otc companies losses incurred on friday , trading officials the damage was n't as bad as it was in 1987 so , said .
`` we huge inventories two years ago was carrying and that was the big culprit .
'' mr. king of robinson-humphrey i do n't know of anyone big inventories carrying now , said .
tony cecin , head of equity trading at piper , jaffray & hopwood in minneapolis , that piper jaffray money actually made on friday said .
he it that his inventory is a third smaller now than it was two years ago , helped said .
joseph hardiman , president of the national association of securities dealers , which the nasdaq computerized trading system , oversee that despite the rush of selling , he the situation an `` emergency '' never considered said .
he `` the pace of trading was orderly , '' said .
`` nasdaq 's small order execution system worked beautifully , '' as the automated system for larger trades , did according to mr. hardiman .
the shock of another steep plunge in stock prices many investors ' confidence nevertheless , undoubtedly will shake .
in the past , the otc market thrived on a firm base of small-investor participation .
because nasdaq 's trading volume have n't returned to pre-crash levels , traders and otc market officials the damage wo n't be permanent hope .
but they is worried .
mr. mullins of dean witter `` we the public 's confidence to get back , was just starting '' lamented .
more troubling the prospect that the overall collapse in stock prices the base of small-investor support the otc market to rebuild in the wake of the october 1987 crash was struggling could permanently erode is .
mr. cecin of piper jaffray some action from government policy makers investor fears would allay say .
he it much more wo n't take `` the hell to scare out of retail investors , '' say .
on friday the sellers big and small institutional investors , as well as individual investors and market makers came from all corners of the otc market -- .
but grateful traders the sell orders generally ranged from 20,000 shares to 50,000 shares , compared with blocks of 500,000 shares or more two years ago said .
shearson 's mr. dapuzzo retail investors stock nervously sold friday and to bargain-hunt never returned said .
institutional investors , which stock had been selling throughout last week handsome gains made through the third quarter , to lock in was calmer .
mr. dapuzzo `` we a good amount of selling from institutions , but not as much panic , had '' said .
`` if they could n't sell , some of them the shares put back on the shelf '' .
in addition , he said , some bigger institutional investors bids some otc stocks whose prices was beaten down to buy placed .
in addition , mr. dapuzzo computer-guided program selling of otc stocks in the russell index of 2000 small stocks and the standard & poor 's 500-stock index occasional `` waves sent `` through the market said .
nasdaq 's biggest stocks was hammered .
the nasdaq 100 index of the largest nonfinancial issues , including the big otc technology issues , 4.2 % , or 19.76 , tumbled to 449.33 .
the nasdaq financial index of giant insurance and banking stocks 2 % , or 9.31 , dropped to 462.98 .
the otc market only a handful of takeover-related stocks have .
but they fell sharply .
for instance , mccaw cellular communications , lin broadcasting as well as metromedia 's new york city cellular telephone interests , to buy and in a separate transaction , certain mccaw properties sell to contel cellular have offered .
mccaw 8 % , or 3 1/2 , lost to 40 .
lin broadcasting , 5 1/2 , or 5 % , dropped to 107 1/2 .
the turnover in both issues was roughly normal .
on a day negative takeover-related news when did n't sit well with investors , commercial intertech , a maker of engineered metal parts , haas & partners it that it its previously reported $ 27.50-a-share bid the company to buy to pursue do n't plan advised said .
commercial intertech 6 plummeted to 26 .
the issues of companies with ties to the junk bond market also tumbled friday .
on the otc market , first executive , a big buyer of the high-risk , high-yield issues , 2 slid to 12 1/4 .
among other otc issues , intel , 2 1/8 dropped to 33 7/8 ; laidlaw transportation 1 1/8 lost to 19 1/2 ; the american depositary receipts of jaguar was off 1/4 to 10 1/4 ; mci communications 2 1/4 slipped to 43 1/2 ; apple computer 3 fell to 45 3/4 and nike 2 1/4 dropped to 66 3/4 .
the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below is a guide to general levels but actual transactions do n't always represent .
the minimum unit is $ 100,000 .
these rate indications is n't directly comparable ; lending practices vary widely by location .
pension funds , insurers and other behemoths of the investing world they stocks scooping up during friday 's market rout began said .
and they more to buy today plan .
many giant institutional investors the latest war to be fighting by the lesson they learned in the october 1987 crash : buying at the bottom pays off applying rightly or wrongly , appear .
to be sure , big investors their checkbooks might put away in a hurry if stocks open sharply lower today .
they could still panic and bail out of the market .
but their 1987 performance that they stocks wo n't abandon unless conditions far worse get indicate .
john w. rogers , president of chicago-based ariel capital management inc. , which $ 1.1 billion of stocks manage `` last time , we got rewarded for going out and stocks buying when the panic was the worst , '' said .
mr. rogers for `` our favorite stocks that have fallen apart '' half his cash on hand spent friday .
he the rest to invest if the market weaken further expect .
denver-based portfolio manager james craig was n't daunted friday 's rout $ 40 million when shaved from the value of the $ 752 million janus fund he oversee .
he `` i sure all the program trades had kicked through , to make waited '' said .
he then jumped into the market :
`` i $ 30 million spent in the last half-hour '' .
other money managers their wallets also opened .
frederick a. moran , president of moran asset management inc. , greenwich , conn `` i was buying at the close ( friday ) and i 'll be buying again because i we good value , be getting know '' said .
`` no justification there is on the fundamental level for this crash '' .
unlike mutual funds , which stockholdings to sell investors money , to withdraw when rush can be forced big investors such as pension funds and insurance companies market storms to ride out without stock jettisoning can decide .
they just that , most often , do because stocks to be the best-performing long-term investment , about $ 1 trillion attracting from pension funds alone have proved .
stephen b. timbers , chief investment officer of chicago-based kemper financial services inc `` if you bought after the crash , you did very very well off the bottom , '' said .
for one , the $ 56 billion california public employees retirement system , $ 1 billion added two years ago to its stock portfolio .
`` the last crash institutional investors that they to be long-term holders , have and that they ca n't react to short-term events , good or bad , taught '' said stephen l. nesbitt , senior vice president for the pension consultants wilshire associates in santa monica , calif .
`` those that pulled out ( of stocks ) it , regretted `` so '' '' he said , i you any significant changes 'll see in institutional portfolios as a result of friday 's decline doubt .
even friday 's slump investors ahead more than 20 % , well above the annual average for stocks over several decades leave .
james d. awad , president of new york-based bmi capital corp `` you 400 points could go down and a good year in the market , still have '' said .
mr. awad , that `` the market 800 or 900 points could go down in the next few days however , worry .
it can happen before you can turn around '' .
he he many parallels with 1987 , including the emphasis on takeover stocks and the re-emergence of computerized program trading discern said .
he said , `` `` the only thing you do n't have , '' is the ` portfolio insurance ' phenomenon overlaid on the rest . ''
most institutional investors the portfolio insurance hedging technique , which the 1987 crash to have worsened is widely thought have abandoned .
this tactic not really insurance , the blow of declining stock prices to soften and an offsetting profit generate by waves of s&p futures contracts selling was designed .
in its severest test , the $ 60 billion of portfolio insurance in effect in the 1987 crash did n't work , as stock buyers disappeared and stock and futures prices disconnected became .
money managers even without portfolio insurance , market conditions was grim friday , said .
neil weisman , whose new york-based chilmark capital partners 85 % of its $ 220 million investment pool had converted to cash in recent months , he was besieged by wall street firms friday him stock to take off their hands asking said .
mr. weisman , who , happy with his returns on investments chalked up earlier , the offers declined `` we calls from big block houses us asking if we bids to make on anything , want got '' said .
mr. weisman stocks to stabilize in the next few days will appear before declining again , more investors trapping predict .
he `` i it will be a rigor mortis rally , think '' said .
friday a reprieve for money managers whose investment styles them had put at odds with the market rally meanwhile , brought .
especially gleeful the short sellers , who have been pounded by this year 's market climb was .
the shorts borrowed shares , sell to profit by them replacing later at a lower price hoping .
the nation 's largest short-selling operation is feshbach brothers , palo alto , calif. , which that its short positions losses of 10 % for the year had shown up to that point said last may .
the firm 's kurt feshbach `` we be ahead for the year because of friday , '' said .
`` we a killing , be not making but we had a good day .
food and drug administration spokesman jeff nesbit the agency evidence have turned over in a criminal investigation vitarine pharmaceuticals inc. concerning to the u.s. attorney 's office in baltimore said .
neither vitarine nor any of the springfield gardens , n.y. , company 's officials or employees have been charged with any crimes .
vitarine approval a version of a blood pressure medicine to market won but that it a smithkline beecham plc product substituted as its own in tests acknowledged .
mr. nesbit the fda bolar pharmaceutical co. its urinary tract antibiotic to recall at the retail level have asked also said .
the spokesman but the company so far have n't complied with that request , said .
mr. nesbit bolar , the subject of a criminal investigation by the fda and the inspector general 's office of the health and human services department , two strengths of its version of macrodantin to recall `` as far down as direct customers , mostly wholesalers , '' only agreed said .
bolar , of copiague , n.y. , a voluntary recall of both its 100 milligram and 50 milligram versions of the drug earlier began .
the fda it evidence it uncovered presented to the company that bolar the brand-name product substituted for its own government approval generic versions of macrodantin to sell to gain indicating have said .
bolar that it the brand-name product switched for its own in such testing have denied .
the west german retailer asko deutsche kaufhaus ag the legality of a widely employed anti-takeover defense of companies in the netherlands to challenge plan .
the eventual court decision a landmark in dutch corporate law could become because the lawsuit asko to file plan would be the first the entire principle and practice of companies voting preferred shares issuing to management-controlled trusts voting power of common stockholders to dilute to challenge .
asko 's dutch lawyers only specific aspects of these defenses up to now have been challenged , though unsuccessfully , noted .
the courts the validity of this type of defense , should uphold asko the court such a vote-diluting maneuver recently deployed by koninklijke ahold nv to overturn will then ask .
asko the dutch-based international food retailer reasonable grounds preferred stock to issue to a friendly trust and the worth and voting power of asko and other shareholders thus dilute had n't say .
speaking through its dutch lawyers , asko it a 15 % stake in ahold hold also disclosed .
it asko a 13.6 % stake that was accumulated since july held was previously thought .
a spokesman for ahold his company is confident of its own position and the propriety of the preferred-share issue said .
he asko 's legal actions termed as `` unproductive '' to international cooperation among european retailers .
chase manhattan bank chairman willard butcher is a conservative banker and a loyal republican , but on friday morning he few kind words had for president bush 's economic policy-making .
he `` some very significant issues out there , such as the fiscal deficit , the trade deficit , our relations with japan , that to be the subject of major initiatives , have there is '' said in an interview .
`` i that initiative , to see 'd like and i have n't .
a big shot , an agenda there is n't '' .
the stock market 190 points a few hours later , dropped .
politicians each other to finger for the blame , although many analysts that washington was singly responsible for wall street 's woes doubt tried .
but mr. butcher 's comments clear : one thing some on wall street wonder if anyone is in charge of economic policy make .
-- by 11:59 p.m. tonight , president bush $ 16 billion of automatic , across-the-board cuts in government spending to comply with the gramm-rudman budget law must order .
the cuts is necessary because congress and the administration agreement on a deficit-cutting bill to reach have failed .
house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) `` we strong leadership the deficit to reduce and tough choices , make to try simply do n't have '' said yesterday on nbc news 's `` meet the press '' .
-- for the last two weeks , the bush administration and the federal reserve have been engaged in a semi-public battle over international economic policy .
the administration the dollar to push lower have been trying ; the fed have been resisting .
lawrence kudlow , a bear , stearns & co. economist , `` one of the things that me to worry continue is this monetary warfare between the treasury department and the federal reserve board , '' said on abc 's `` this week '' .
-- the administration confusing signals about its response to a recent spate of airline takeovers have sent out .
last month , transportation secretary sam skinner northwest airlines a stake held by klm royal dutch airlines to reduce forced .
but he have since run into opposition from the treasury and the white house over that decision .
and he mum on his decision a bid for united airlines , which a big stake by british airways plc include how might affect have kept .
some analysts uncertainty about washington 's anti-takeover policy was one reason financing for the united airlines takeover that fell through -- the event that the market drop triggered say .
in many ways , the backdrop to friday 's stock decline is eerily similar to that of october 1987 's 508-point crash .
then , as now , the budget debate was behind schedule and automatic spending cuts was within days of hold taking .
the treasury was locked in a battle over international economic policy , although at that time it was with west german officials rather than the federal reserve .
and concern about official actions aimed at takeovers -- then by the tax-writing house ways and means committee rather than the transportation department -- markets nervous was making .
the 1987 crash the reagan administration and democratic lawmakers brought to the table for the first budget summit , resulting in a two-year plan the deficit to reduce by more than $ 76 billion -- though the deficit even actually rose by nearly $ 12 billion during that period .
but , barring further drops in the market this week , a similar outcome likely do n't seem this year .
lawmakers and administration officials that by itself , friday 's drop , is n't enough both sides a deficit-reduction agreement that would be more serious and more far-reaching than last spring 's gimmick-ridden plan , which still is n't fully implemented to reach to try to force back to the table agree .
one of the biggest reasons that new talks is n't likely to come about that , as everyone learned in 1987 , the economy and the market a one-day 508-point tumble can survive is .
rep. panetta `` everybody thought we was looking at a repetition of 1929 , that we was looking at a recession , '' said yesterday in an interview .
`` that did not happen .
they they it could survive without much problem learned '' .
but administration officials with mr. panetta , who `` a precipitous drop this week the president and congress a much harder look at fiscal policy to take to force is going '' said privately agree .
senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) `` an underlying concern on the part of the american people -- and there should be - that the administration have not gone far enough in this deficit cutting and that congress has been unwilling what the administration us to cut , asked to cut there is '' said .
it more than friday 's 190-point decline nevertheless , clearly will take the bitter feelings that have developed between lawmakers and white house budget director richard darman over the capital-gains fight to overcome .
hill democrats is particularly angry over mr. bush 's claim that the capital-gains cut was part of april 's budget accord and his insistence on it combining with the deficit-reduction legislation .
senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) `` no prospect of any so-called grand compromise or deal next year there is because the administration simply did n't live up to this year 's deal , '' said yesterday on cbs news 's `` face the nation '' .
during last week 's maneuverings on the deficit-cutting bill and the capital-gains issue , signs that senate republicans and the administration was at odds there was .
at the very moment senate republicans a deal capital gains to exclude from the deficit-reduction legislation , that was negotiating white house spokesman marlin fitzwater reporters that it was the president 's policy it to include told .
an agreement capital gains to strip from the legislation , when was reached oregon sen. bob packwood , the ranking gop member of the tax-writing senate finance committee , it hailed .
asked if the administration agreed , he `` the adminstration to speak for itself will have '' curtly replied : .
friday 's market tumble action on the house and senate versions of the deficit-reduction measure , reconciling a process that to begin until tomorrow at the soonest is n't expected could spur .
senate republicans the hope that the house the lead of the senate , which on friday a variety of spending measures and tax breaks that the fiscal 1990 deficit would have increased to drop agreed would follow expressed .
sen. warren rudman ( r. , n.h . ) `` the market a strong signal that we be serious about deficit reduction , need and the best way that to do is for the house of representatives their bill to strip of similar provisions , '' said yesterday .
the white house office of management and budget , whose calculations whether the gramm-rudman targets is met , determine that the house-passed deficit-reduction measure the fiscal 1990 shortfall would cut by $ 6.2 billion , almost half of the congressional budget office 's estimate of $ 11.0 billion estimated .
rep. panetta that omb 's figure would still be enough permanent across-the-board cuts , to avoid said but `` we very close to the margins be getting here '' added : .
no one in washington was willing the blame for friday 's drop in the stock market provoking to take .
but some players was quick the moment to seize .
before the sun had set on friday , richard rahn , the supply-side chief economist of the u.s. chamber of commerce , a statement the drop in stock prices attributing to the senate decision action on capital gains to postpone issued .
he `` investors , who assets had been holding in anticipation of a more favorable time to sell , was spooked , '' said .
`` there have been many preposterous reasons advanced a capital-gains tax cut , to support '' sen. mitchell said during his television appearance , `` but i that is perhaps more than any of the others suggest .
the following u.s. treasury , corporate and municipal offerings is tentatively scheduled for sale this week , according to dow jones capital markets report :
small investors their big institutional brethren matched in anxiety over the weekend , but most a philosophical approach to be taking seemed and they was resigned the latest storm in the stock market to riding out said .
boston lawyer christopher sullivan `` i faith in the market , be not losing '' said as he the market plunge watched on a big screen in front of a brokerage firm .
but he be not so sure about everyone else .
mr. sullivan , whose investments amr corp. 's american airlines unit and several mutual funds include `` i on monday the small ( investors ) to panic and sell , are going think '' predicted .
`` and i institutions to come in and buy is going think ...
i to hold on be going .
if i sell now , i a big loss 'll take '' .
some an optimism that had been rewarded they the market when did n't flee in 1987 evinced .
lucy crump , a 78-year-old retired housewife in lexington , ky . `` oh , i it 'll be up 50 points on monday , bet '' said
mrs. crump said her ashwood investment club 's portfolio about one-third of its value lost following the black monday crash , `` but '' no one got discouraged , and we that gained back -- and more .
at the annual congress of the national association of investors corp. at the hyatt regency hotel in minneapolis , the scene was calm .
some 500 investors investor clubs from around the u.s. representing was attending the market to slide when started friday .
but robert showalter , an official of the association , no special bulletins or emergency meetings of the investors ' clubs is planned said .
john snyder , a member of a los angeles investors ' club `` we advantage to take of it , hope '' said .
he four stocks to buy if the prices drop to the level he want have in mind .
not everyone is reacting so calmly , however , and many wonder about the long-term implications of what is widely viewed as the cause of friday 's slide , reluctance by banks financing to provide for a buy-out of ual corp. , parent of united airlines .
marc perkins , a tampa , fla. , investment banker , the market drop is one of `` a tremendous number of signs that the leveraged take-out era is ending said .
no question that a general distaste for leverage there be among lenders there be .
'' mr. perkins that the market could be stabilized if california investor marvin davis step back in to the united bidding with an offer of $ 275 a share believe however , , .
sara albert , a 34-year-old dallas law student , she be generally skittish about the stock market and the takeover activity that it to fuel seem say .
`` i this feeling that it be built on sand , she say , that the market rise `` but '' no foundation to it there be have '' .
she and her husband most of their investments pulled out of the market after the 1987 crash , although she some texaco stock still own .
partly because of concern about the economy and because she her job as a legal assistant partly recently quit to go to school , `` i we to be a lot more liquid want think at this point '' .
others the small investor how many more of these shocks can stand wonder .
san francisco attorney david greenberg `` all we october '87 was a one-time shot , assumed '' said .
`` we the little guy told it could only happen once in a lifetime , come on back .
it now be happening again '' .
mr. greenberg out got just before the 1987 crash and , to his regret , never went back as the market even soared .
this time he be ready to buy in `` the panic when wear off '' .
he `` we this kind of thing happen very often ca n't have still , add : .
the little guy frightened , when get the big guys hurt badly .
merrill lynch ca n't survive without the little guy '' .
small investors have tiptoed back into the market following black monday , but mostly through mutual funds .
leslie quick jr. , chairman of the quick & reilly discount brokerage firm discount brokerage customers `` have been in the market somewhat but not whole hog like they was two years ago , '' say .
hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles scwhab corp. , schwab customers `` have been neutral to cautious recently about stocks '' say .
mr. quackenbush individual investors is still angry about program trading , say .
avner arbel , a cornell university finance professor , government regulators program trading to more closely control `` the confidence of the small investor to win back '' will have say .
but it be not only the stock market that some small investors worried has .
alan helfman , general sales manager of a chrysler dealership in houston , said he and his mother some joint stock investments , have but the overall economy is his chief worry .
he `` these high rollers a big bath took today , '' said in his showroom , which is within a few miles of the multi-million dollar homes of some of houston 's richest citizens .
`` and i you that a high roller to come in tomorrow and a chrysler tc by maserati buy is n't going can tell '' .
and , the gloaters finally , there was .
`` i out got in 1987 .
everything , '' pascal antori , an akron , ohio , plumbing contractor who chicago was visiting and stopped by fidelity investments ' lasalle street office said .
`` i i how much would have lost to see just stopped by '' .
mr. antori in would ever get back ?
it when come to money : once bitten , 2,000 times shy .
the crowded field for notebook-sized computers is about a lot more crowded to become .
compaq computer corp. 's long-awaited entry today into the notebook field immediate heat to put on others in the market , especially zenith electronics corp. , the current market leader , and on a swarm of promising start-ups is expected .
compaq 's series of notebooks a trend toward downsizing in the personal computer market extend .
one manufacturer a clipboard-sized computer a notepad , called already have produced and two others even smaller `` palmtops '' have introduced .
but those machines novelties , is still considered with keyboards only a munchkin could love and screens to match .
analysts say they be faster and more memory than anything else of their size on the market carry -- and they be priced aggressively at $ 2,400 to $ 5,000 .
all of this in a machine that only six pounds weigh and fit comfortably into most briefcases comes .
in recent months , all compaq 's competition , including zenith , toshiba corp. , tandy corp. and nec corp. portables that approximately the same weigh and that notebooks are called perhaps misleadingly -- have introduced .
that most such machines is about two inches thick , noting one analyst , exception take to the name .
he `` this is n't quite a notebook -- i it a phonebook , call '' say .
that ca n't be said of the $ 2,400 notepad computer introduced a few weeks ago by grid systems corp. , a unit of tandy .
instead of a keyboard , it a writing surface , an electronic pen and the ability `` block printing to read '' feature .
at 4 1/2 pounds , it may be too ambitiously named , but it the kind of marketing possibilities that analysts froth make nevertheless open up .
palmtops is n't far behind .
introduced two months ago in europe and in the u.s. in early september , atari corp. 's portfolio , less than a pound , weigh a mere $ 400 cost and run on three aa batteries , yet the power some spreadsheets and word processing programs to run have .
some critics , its ability commonplace programs to run is restricted by a limited memory however , say .
poquet computer corp. , a much more sophisticated palmtop that lotus 1-2-3 and other sophisticated software programs , can run but five times as much cost meanwhile , have introduced .
at stake mike swavely , compaq 's president of north america operations , what `` the holy grail of the computer industry '' call -- the search for `` a real computer in a package so small you it can take everywhere '' is .
the market is so new , nobody how big it can be know yet .
tom humphries , director of marketing for grid `` i a lot of people services how big it is , to find out to sell me trying have had '' say .
`` whether it be $ 5 billion or $ 3.5 billion , it matter do n't .
it be huge . ''
the growth of portables , which 12 % of all personal computer sales now comprise consider .
laptops -- generally anything under 15 pounds -- the fastest-growing personal computer segment , have become with sales doubling this year .
it use of the faster , more powerful microprocessors found in increasing numbers of desktop machines also have precluded .
size and weight considerations screen displays also have limited .
the competitive sniping pretty petty can get at times .
for example , a poquet spokesman , the atari portfolio criticize because it three batteries require while the poquet only two need .
both palmtops by notebook makers , who that they be too small -- a problem poquet also encountered in focus groups , gerry purdy , director of marketing admit argue is dismissed .
the `` gadget '' label , to avoid trying poquet , responded with the tag line , `` the poquet pc -- a very big computer '' .
despite the sniping , few question the inevitability of the move to small machines that compromises do n't make .
toward that end , experts the real battle place will take between center-stage players like toshiba , zenith and now compaq say .
compaq 's new machines a direct threat to start-up firms like dynabook inc. , which a computer that , like compaq 's , an intel 286 microprocessor use and a hard disk drive have introduced in june is considered .
but the dynabook product is twice as heavy and costs more than compaq 's .
compaq 's announcement for zenith , which last year 28 % of the u.s. laptop market had but its computer business to sell to cie. des machines bull , the french government-owned computer maker recently agreed trouble also spell .
zenith holders will vote in december on the proposed $ 635 million sale , a price that could slip because it is pegged to zenith 's share and sales .
compaq aim is already taking at zenith 's market share .
rod canion , compaq 's president and chief executive officer , that zenith 's $ 2,000 minisport an `` unconventional '' two-inch floppy disk , use whereas compaq 's new machines the more common 3 1/2-inch disk use note pointedly .
john p. frank , president of zenith data systems , simply shrugs off such criticism , that 3 1/2-inch floppies was also `` unconventional '' they five-inch disks when first replaced noting .
he `` we do n't look at it as not being a standard , we look at it as a new standard , '' argue .
analysts that way do n't see it .
gene talsky , president of professional marketing management inc `` i that you to anyone who you this is dynamite for compaq and a stopper for everyone else , wo n't tell 'll talk ca n't imagine '' say .
adds bill lempesis , senior industry analyst for dataquest , a high-technology market research firm : `` we that these is very hot products basically think .
the problem compaq to have is going that they wo n't be able enough of them to make is '' .
compaq 's machines the 3 1/2-inch floppy disk drive , a backlit screen that is only 1/4-inch thick and an internal expansion slot for a modem -- in other words , almost all the capabilities of a typical office machine include .
others undoubtedly will follow , but most analysts compaq at least a six-month lead on the competition have believe .
for example , toshiba 's line of portables , the t-1000 , which is in the same weight class but is much slower and less memory , have and the t-1600 , which a 286 microprocessor , also use but which almost twice as much weigh and is three times the size feature .
marketed in japan , a third model , the u.s. may hit by the end of the first quarter of 1990 , but by then , analysts say , compaq itself will have established as one of three major players .
analysts say , international business machines corp. , have been burned twice in the laptop market to enter trying and no signs of to get anytime soon into notebooks trying show .
honeywell inc. and international business machines corp. air force contracts integrated circuits for use in space to develop received .
honeywell 's contract $ 69.7 million , totaled and ibm 's $ 68.8 million .
boeing co. a $ 46.7 million air force contract for cable systems for the minuteman missile developing received .
general dynamics corp. a $ 29 million air force contract for electronic-warfare training sets received .
grumman corp. an $ 18.1 million navy contract aircraft electronics to upgrade received .
avco corp. an $ 11.8 million army contract for helicopter engines received .
the national institute of statistics sharp increases in the price of fresh produce spain 's september consumer price index 1.1 % to shoot up from the previous month , the annual rate of inflation pushing to 6.8 % , caused said friday .
the monthly increase is the highest recorded in the past four years .
the index , which 156.8 registered at the end of september , a base of 100 set in 1983 have and is n't seasonally adjusted .
prices 5.9 % have risen in the first nine months of the year , both the initial 3 % inflation goal set by the government of socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez and the second , revised goal of 5.8 % outstripping .
the bank of japan in september japan 's wholesale prices 3.3 % rose from a year earlier and was up 0.4 % from the previous month , announced friday .
the wholesale price index stood at 90.1 , compared with a 1985 base of 100 .
twenty-four new york stock exchange issues 52-week highs hit during friday 's trading , despite the dow jones industrial average 's 190.58-point plunge .
stocks of utilities held up relatively better than other market sectors during the sell-off .
and among the issues new highs hitting detroit edison co. and niagara mohawk power corp was .
other major issues highs hitting american telephone & telegraph co. , westinghouse electric corp. , exxon corp. and cigna corp. , the big insurer included .
of course , many more issues -- 93 -- new lows hit .
these international business machines corp. , which during friday 's session traded below $ 100 a share for the first time since june 1984 included .
ibm closed down $ 5.625 at $ 102 , .
other new lows navistar international corp. , union carbide corp. and bethlehem steel corp. , all of which are included in the industrial average included .
two initial public offerings the cascading market meanwhile , braved in their maiden day of national over-the-counter trading friday .
shares of rally 's inc. , an operator of fast-food restaurants , closed up from its $ 15 offering price at $ 17 each , and shares of employee benefit plans inc. , a health-care consultant , closed up from its $ 12 offering price at $ 14.125 , .
ford motor co. it 5 % of the shares in jaguar plc acquired said .
the company jaguar , the london stock exchange and the u.s. securities and exchange commission is being notified of the transactions , said .
the u.s. federal trade commission ford that it any objection to the acquisition of as much as 15 % of jaguar shares would n't raise advised last week .
the no. 2 auto maker that it as much as 15 % of the british luxury-car maker , the maximum allowed under current united kingdom government restrictions to buy want disclosed last month .
general motors corp. it the possibility of a joint venture with jaguar had discussed before ford shares buying began said .
gm it still is talking with jaguar about a minority interest acquiring said .
investors who stock bought with borrowed money -- that is , `` on margin '' -- may be more worried than most following friday 's market drop .
that be because their brokers them some shares to sell or more cash the collateral their loans backing to enhance put up can require .
in october 1987 , these margin calls to have contributed to the downward spiral of the stock market was thought .
a margin call typically , occur the price of a stock when fall below 75 % of its original value .
if the investor the extra cash the call , to satisfy do n't put up the brokerage firm the securities liquidating may begin .
but some big brokerage firms they major problems as a result of margin calls do n't expect said .
a spokesman for shearson lehman hutton inc. margin calls since friday `` have been higher than usual , but reasonable , '' said .
a spokesman `` merrill lynch & co. officials margin calls -lcb- -rcb- to be as big a factor as in 1987 do n't expect '' because fewer individual investors stock is buying on margin , said .
hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles schwab corp. , the san francisco-based discount brokerage firm , he any immediate problems with margin calls for schwab customers did n't expect said .
he said schwab margin requirements had increased `` so '' customers more of a cushion have .
he `` we a lesson learned in 1987 about volatility added : .
rival hertz corp. 's lead , following avis inc. , it is backing out of frequent-flier programs with three airlines said .
the garden city , n.y. , car-rental company it contracts with nwa inc. 's northwest airlines unit , pan am corp. 's pan american world airways unit and midway airlines wo n't renew at the end of this year said .
but it involved in programs with amr corp. 's american airlines unit and delta air lines remain .
industry estimates avis 's annual cost of all five programs put at between $ 8 million and $ 14 million .
a spokesman for avis the costs would n't specify but the three airlines being dropped account for `` far less than half of the total '' said .
both budget rent a car corp. , of chicago , and national car rental systems inc. , of minneapolis , they no plans suit to follow had said .
in fact , budget it some benefit involved in these programs , in which renters frequent-flier miles earn and fliers car-rental discounts can get to staying saw indicated .
bob wilson , budget 's vice president , marketing planning `` i this news by hertz and avis budget 's programs , how can not benefit can not see '' said .
northwest and midway is two of the five airlines with which budget agreements have .
national also participate along with four other airlines , including delta and usair group inc. 's usair unit in the northwest frequent-flier program .
hertz , of park ridge , n.j. , that it its marketing agreements would drop at year end with delta , america west and texas air corp. 's continental airlines and eastern airlines , and that pacts with american airlines , ual inc 's united airlines and usair also would be ended sometime after dec. 31 ... a month ago , said .
at the time , hertz its annual fees to those airlines amounted to $ 20 million and that the value of redeemed awards $ 15 million topped said .
analysts and competitors , the numbers was that high however , doubt .
budget its frequent-flier costs is `` substantially '' below avis 's level said .
robert d. cardillo , avis vice president of marketing , `` the proliferation and costs attached to -lcb- frequent-flier programs -rcb- their value have significantly diminished '' said , .
charles finnie , car-rental industry analyst at alex . brown & sons this year has been difficult for both hertz and avis , said .
he `` they their costs to get down , have been looking and this is a fairly sensible way it , to do '' said .
cbs inc. `` the pat sajak show '' is cutting down to one hour from its current 90 minutes .
cbs the move was n't a setback for the program , which is the network 's first entry into the late-night talk show format since 1972 insisted .
rod perth , who vice president of late night entertainment was named in august `` i every intention of this the best possible show making have and it run one hour having is the best way to it , '' said .
`` this the energy level of the show will raise '' .
cbs action-adventure shows the sajak hour to follow to program will continue .
but cbs news its four-hour `` nightwatch '' will extend by 30 minutes and begin at 1:30 a.m .
despite a promising start , the show , finishing far below `` tonight '' on nbc , a unit of general electric co. , and `` nightline '' on abc-tv , a unit of capital cities/abc inc have slipped badly in the weekly ratings as compiled by a.c. nielsen co. , .
the addition of the `` arsenio hall show , '' syndicated by paramount communications inc the late-night audience further fractioning is .
to fight with international business machines corp. for a piece of the mainframe business , preparing tandem computers inc. , it higher revenue and earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended sept. 30 to post expect said .
tandem it revenue of about $ 450 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share to report expect said .
james treybig , tandem 's chief executive officer the results , which are in line with analysts ' estimates , `` a continued improvement in our u.s. business , '' reflect said .
in the year-earlier period , tandem net income of $ 30.1 million , or 31 cents a share , on revenue of $ 383.9 million reported .
tandem the full results for the quarter to report next week expect .
analysts that the cupertino , calif. , company revenue of $ 430 million to $ 460 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share will report have predicted .
commenting on the results for the quarter , mr. treybig the strength of the company 's domestic business came as `` a surprise '' to him , that sales `` in every region of the u.s. '' our plan exceeded noting said .
he the company 's u.s. performance was helped by `` a record quarter for new customers , '' said .
tandem `` fault-tolerant '' computers -- machines with built-in backup systems -- that stock exchanges , networks of automatic tellers and other complex computer systems run make .
tomorrow the company its most powerful computer ever , which for the first time it will bring into direct competition with makers of mainframe computers to announce is scheduled .
tandem 's new high-end computer cyclone is called .
prices for the machine , which can come in various configurations , is $ 2 million to $ 10 million .
analysts the new computer a hefty slice of business to wrest away from ibm , the longtime leader in mainframes expect .
`` we they perhaps two to three billion dollars could siphon from ibm over the next few years , believe '' said george weiss , an analyst at the gartner group .
that tandem 's growth will spur .
john levinson , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co `` i 'd be disappointed if the company grew by less than 20 % next year , '' said .
ibm to respond to tandem 's cyclone by its own mainframes , discounting is expected which analysts are roughly three times the price of a comparable system from tandem say .
mr. weiss `` ibm bigger discounts obviously can give immediately , to users '' said .
but mr. treybig questions whether that will be enough tandem 's first mainframe to stop from some of the functions that large organizations previously sought from big blue 's machines taking on .
he `` the answer is n't price reductions , but new systems , '' said .
tandem a variety of challenges , the biggest being that customers the company 's computers generally view as complementary to ibm 's mainframes nevertheless , face .
even mr. treybig is reluctant this notion , to abandon that tandem 's new machines is n't replacements for ibm 's mainframes insisting .
he `` we be after a little bigger niche , '' said .
the stock market 's swoon to be good news for the economy may turn out .
in one wild hour of trading , the market the bush administration what to do , have been trying unsuccessfully , for weeks to accomplish managed .
it the federal reserve its grip on credit to ease is forcing and it the wind took out of a previously irrepressible dollar .
the resulting decline in interest rates and the value of the dollar american business -- indeed , the entire economy could reinvigorate .
this strangely optimistic may sound .
after all , until a few years ago , the stock market was viewed as a barometer of the national economy .
it when went down , by all tradition , the economy followed .
that have changed , partly because the two years following the worst stock-market plunge in history have been reasonably comfortable .
university of chicago economist victor zarnowitz the 1987 crash was `` a false alarm you it , however view '' say .
the market increasingly disconnected from the rest of the nation seem .
its spasms ca n't be traced to fundamental business conditions , nor they major shifts in the economy to presage do appear .
john akers , chairman of international business machines corp. , `` the market today a life of its own , have '' said saturday .
`` nothing rational about this kind of action there be '' .
of course , the health of the economy will be threatened if the market to dive continue this week .
sharply falling stock prices consumer wealth , do reduce business confidence damage and the foreign investors upon whom the u.s. now rely for financial sustenance discourage .
the financial-services industry was battered by the 1987 crash .
what 's more , although the stock market is far less overvalued today than two years ago , the u.s. economy is weaker .
growth is slower .
profits is softer .
debt burdens is heavier .
but if the stock market to plummet , do n't continue the beneficial effects of lower interest rates and a lower dollar may well dominate .
the fed , which until friday moves credit , to ease had been resisting money to pour into the economy if the markets to soothe needed is now poised .
fed officials that this a fundamental change in their interest-rate policies do n't necessarily mean may protest .
but the experience of the 1987 crash the fed is likely short-term interest rates to bring down in its effort markets to calm suggest .
the fed 's move , anticipating money traders a key interest rate known as the federal funds rate lowered down from 8.820 % the day before to 8.625 % late friday , .
tiny movements in the rate , which what banks each other charge for overnight loans , is is usually among the few visible tracks that the fed leave on the monetary markets .
the dollar to decline also began friday as the stock market 's plunge some investors their desire to invest in the u.s. to reassess caused .
treasury officials that the dollar 's strength the export boom that manufacturers have sustained for several years to extinguish threatening was out of whack with economic fundamentals , have been arguing for months .
the market drop foreign investors that the treasury was right about the overpriced dollar have now apparently convinced .
a modest drop in the dollar -- only a modest one , you mind -- would be welcomed by the u.s. .
that was n't the case in 1987 , when the dollar was so weak that some economists and government officials that it panic among foreign investors producing and the flow of foreign capital to the u.s. diminishing might collapse , seriously worried .
another big difference between 1987 and 1989 is n't so comforting .
in the third quarter of 1987 , the economy spurted at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 5.3 % .
the consensus among economists that it in the third quarter of 1989 , which ended two weeks ago a much more sluggish 2.3 % grew is .
economist lawrence chimerine of wefa group , a bala cynwyd , pa. , forecasting company `` the plunge in stock prices is happening at a time the economy when have already slowed down , '' say .
`` a lot of pent-up demand is gone '' .
mr. zarnowitz , a longtime student of business cycles consumer spending did drop in the months following black monday 1987 -- `` but only slightly and for a short period of time , '' recall .
`` that was offset by strength elsewhere .
-lcb- -rcb- the effects was much less severe and less prolonged than some had feared or expected .
'' today , he fret , exports and business investment spending may be insufficient the slack to pick up if stock prices sink this week and if consumers retrench in reaction .
what 's more , the corporate borrowing binge have n't abated in the past two years .
mr. chimerine `` we two more years of significant accumulation of debt have had ... just at the time earnings when is being squeezed , '' note .
the more a company rely on borrowed money , the greater its sensitivity to an economic slowdown .
a company with a strong balance sheet an unanticipated storm can withstand ; a highly leveraged company may end up in bankruptcy court .
of course , the fed , that know very well -- hence its readiness credit to pump into the economy this morning .
but , in the process , the fed inflation reigniting risk .
even before friday 's events , harvard university economist benjamin friedman that the fed wo n't be able to live up to its tough words on inflation eliminating because of its responsibility fragile financial markets , banks and highly leveraged corporations to protect was arguing .
he the biggest threat on the economic horizon right now is n't recession , reason ; it be an outbreak of uncontrolled inflation .
in the end , the 1987 collapse suggested , the economy do n't move in lockstep with stock prices .
the economy do , however , depend on the confidence of businesses , consumers and foreign investors .
a panic on wall street confidence do n't exactly inspire .
surveys that consumer confidence was high before friday suggested .
a 190-point drop is n't likely much of a dent to make ; that multiply a few times over , though , and it will .
if the reactions of executives gathered saturday at hot springs , va. , for the business council meetings is typical , business leaders was n't overly rattled by friday 's decline .
and if foreign investors a tad more cautious become -- the dollar 's recent strength that the u.s. it can stand well , suggest .
on the bottom line , the most comforting fact for the economic outlook that we 've been through this before is .
two years ago , about the only point of comparison was the 1929 crash and the subsequent depression .
the doomsayers a receptive audience had .
the prosperity that followed black monday a more optimistic view permit today .
at the very least , the establishment here comfort is taking from the nation 's success in the last go-around handling .
as sen. lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) observed yesterday , `` the fed a meltdown avoided last time .
they is more sophisticated this time .
the chemical industry that profits eroded in the third quarter because of skidding prices in the commodity end of the business to report is expected .
producers of commodity chemicals , the basic chemicals produced in huge volumes for other manufacturers , sharp inventory cutting by buyers have seen .
these producers once the chief beneficiaries of the industry 's now fading boom , also will be reporting against exceptionally strong performances in the 1988 third quarter .
leonard bogner , a chemical industry analyst at prudential bache research `` for some of these companies , this will be the first quarter with year-to-year negative comparisons , '' say .
dow chemical co. , which as of midyear eight consecutive record quarters , had racked up perhaps most prominent , that profit decreased in the latest quarter from a year earlier , if only by a shade to report is expected .
though dow have aggressively diversified into specialty chemicals and pharmaceuticals , the company a big stake in polyethylene , which is used in packaging and housewares still have .
analysts ' third-quarter estimates for the midland , mich. , company is between $ 3.20 a share and $ 3.30 a share , compared with $ 3.36 a year ago , when profit was $ 632 million on sales of $ 4.15 billion .
a dow spokeswoman to comment on the estimates declined .
at the investment firm of smith barney , harris upham & co. , the commodity-chemical segment overall profit for 20 companies representative of the whole industry pulling down by 8 % to 10 % is seen .
james wilbur , a smith barney analyst `` you the commodities off more than the others and the diversified companies about even or slightly better , will find '' say .
first boston corp. that 10 of the 15 companies it follow lower profit will report project .
some industry giants continuing gains , to report still , is expected largely because so much of their business is outside commodity chemicals .
du pont co. steady profit growth in white pigments , fibers and polymers to have had is thought .
the wilmington , del. , company moreover , is helped prices when weaken on the commodity chemicals it buy for its own production needs , such as ethylene .
analysts is divided over whether du pont much of a gain in the latest quarter from its conoco inc. oil company will report .
in the 1988 third quarter , the company $ 461 million , or $ 1.91 a share , earned on sales of $ 7.99 billion .
du pont to comment declined .
monsanto co. , higher profit , reporting to continue too , is expected though its sales of crop chemicals even was hurt in the latest quarter by drought in northern europe and the western u.s. .
the st. louis-based company that losses in its g.d. searle & co. pharmaceutical business is narrowing to report again is expected .
searle to operate in the red continued through the first half of the year , but monsanto it searle a profit for all of 1989 to post expect have said .
most estimates for monsanto run between $ 1.70 and $ 2 a share .
the company third-quarter profit of $ 116 million , or $ 1.67 a share , on sales of $ 2.02 billion a year ago , posted .
monsanto to comment declined .
but the commodity-chemical producers is caught on the downside of a pricing cycle .
by some accounts on wall street and in the industry , the inventory reductions is near an end , which firmer demand may presage .
but doubters growing production capacity pressure could keep on prices into the early 1990s say .
in the latest quarter , profit to fall sharply at least , is expected .
for himont inc. , leslie ravitz at salomon brothers `` how far down it is , we do n't know , '' say .
the projections is in the neighborhood of 50 cents a share to 75 cents , compared with a restated $ 1.65 a share a year earlier , when profit was $ 107.8 million on sales of $ 435.5 million .
himont lower prices for its mainstay product , polypropylene , face while it go forward with a heavy capital investment program its raw material supply to bolster and new uses for polypropylene , whose markets the packaging and automobile industries include develop .
the company , based in wilmington , del. , is 81%-owned by montedison s.p . a. , milan , which an offer outstanding for the himont shares it do n't already own have .
at quantum chemical corp. , new york , the trouble is lower prices for polyethylene , higher debt costs and the idling of an important plant due to an explosion .
some analysts their estimates for quantum , hedge because it is n't known the company certain one-time charges when will book .
but the estimates range from break-even to 35 cents a share .
in the 1988 third quarter , quantum $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , earned on sales of $ 724.4 million .
another big polyethylene producer , union carbide corp. , profit of between $ 1 a share and $ 1.25 , compared with $ 1.56 a share a year earlier , the company $ 213 million when earned on sales of $ 2.11 billion to post is expected .
all himont , quantum and union carbide to comment declined .
the issue , which is puttable back to the company at par on oct. 15 , 1999 , was priced at a spread of 50 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
single-a-1 rated by moody 's investors service inc. and single-a by standard & poor 's corp. , the non-callable issue will be sold through underwriters led by merrill lynch capital markets .
the non-callable issue , which can be put back to the company in 1999 , was priced at 99 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
baa-1 rated by moody 's and triple-b-plus by s&p , the issue will be sold through underwriters led by morgan stanley & co .
backed by freddie mac 8 1/2 % securities with a weighted average remaining term to maturity of 28.4 years , the offering , series 102 , was priced before the market 's afternoon surge .
among classes for which details was available , yields ranged from 8.78 % , or 75 basis points over two-year treasury securities , to 10.05 % , or 200 basis points over 10-year treasurys .
the offering , series 101 , is backed by freddie mac 9 1/2 % securities .
pricing details was n't immediately available .
the agency 's first strips issue , collateralized by freddie mac 8 % securities pooled into a single security a giant , called will be divided into interest-only and principal-only securities .
the collateral is being sold by a thrift institution .
the principal-only securities into a freddie mac remic , series 103 , that six classes will have will be repackaged by bt securities .
the interest-only securities will be sold separately by bt securities .
the principal-only securities the principal pay from the underlying freddie mac 8 % securities , while the interest-only securities only interest pay .
freddie mac the principal-only securities 8.45 % , to yield was priced at 58 1/4 said assuming an average life of eight years and a prepayment of 160 % of the psa model .
the interest-only securities 10.72 % to yield was priced at 35 1/2 .
no major eurobond or foreign bond offerings there was in europe friday .
