no , was it n't black monday .
but while did n't fall apart the new york stock exchange friday as 190.58 points -- most of it in the final hour -- plunged the dow jones industrial average this side of chaos to stay barely managed it .
their first test , unable the selling panic in both stocks and futures to cool failed some `` circuit breakers '' installed after the october 1987 crash say traders , .
the selling pressure once again could n't handle the 49 stock specialist firms on the big board floor -- the buyers and sellers of last resort who was criticized after the 1987 crash -- .
the beleaguered floor traders to support by big blocks of stock , buying to step up to the plate refused big investment banks say traders .
stocks relentlessly beat downward heavy selling of standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures in chicago .
trading stopped seven big board stocks -- ual , amr , bankamerica , walt disney , capital cities/abc , philip morris and pacific telesis group -- and never resumed .
have already begun the finger-pointing .
`` was the equity market illiquid .
'' once again -lcb- -rcb- was the specialists not able the imbalances on the floor of the new york stock exchange , to handle said christopher pedersen , senior vice president at twenty-first securities corp .
`` is it easy his job is n't doing the specialist to say countered james maguire , chairman of specialists henderson brothers inc. : .
when is the dollar in a free-fall , it ca n't stop even central banks .
is calling speculators for a degree of liquidity that is not there in the market '' .
their offices had already left many money managers and some traders early friday afternoon on a warm autumn day -- because was the stock market so quiet .
in a lightning plunge , in barely an hour about a third of their gains this year , then surrendered the dow jones industrials a 190.58-point , or 6.9 % , loss on the day chalking up in gargantuan trading volume .
accelerated final-hour trading to 108.1 million shares , a record for the big board .
at the end of the day , was traded 251.2 million shares .
closed the dow jones industrials at 2569.26 .
was the dow 's decline second in point terms only to the 508-point black monday crash that occurred oct. 19 , 1987 .
in percentage terms , however , was the dow 's dive the 12th-worst ever and the sharpest since 156.83 , or 8 % , fell the market a week after black monday .
22.6 % fell the dow on black monday .
was shares of ual , the parent of united airlines , extremely active all day friday , reacting to news and rumors about the proposed $ 6.79 billion buy-out of the airline by an employee-management group .
unusually large bets that would succeed a takeover and would rise ual stock had placed wall street 's takeover-stock speculators , or `` risk arbitragers , '' .
at 2:43 p.m. edt , came the sickening news : trading in ual , was halting the big board `` pending news '' .
on the exchange floor , `` as soon as trading , stopped ual braced we for a panic , '' said one top floor trader .
their heads shaking could be seen several traders when flashed the news .
for weeks , the market had been nervous about takeovers , after concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers spurred campeau corp. 's cash crunch .
and 10 minutes after the ual trading halt came news that financing for its bid could n't get the ual group .
at this point , was down about 35 points the dow .
crumbled the market .
their ual stock could n't dump arbitragers -- but themselves rid they of nearly every `` rumor '' stock had they .
for example , trading halts to be declared in usair group , which closed down 3 7/8 to 41 1/2 , delta air lines , which 7 3/4 fell to 69 1/4 , and philips industries , which 3 sank to 21 1/2 caused their selling .
eventually reopened these stocks .
but as spread panic , blue-chip stocks such as philip morris and international business machines to sell their losses to offset began speculators .
when was halted trading in philip morris , was trading down 3 3/8 , the stock at 41 , while closed 5 5/8 lower ibm at 102 .
snowballed selling because of waves of automatic `` stop-loss '' orders , which is triggered by computer when fall prices to certain levels .
on the other hand , sat tight most of their major institutional investors , said traders .
at 3:07 , hold now , took one of the market 's post-crash `` reforms '' as 12 points , equivalent to around a 100-point drop in the dow industrials had plunged the s&p 500 futures contract .
under an agreement signed by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange , was temporarily halted trading in chicago .
after the trading halt in the s&p 500 pit in chicago , stocks themselves to hit on the big board , continued waves of selling and prices to notch down continued specialists .
as a result , ripped apart the link between the futures and stock markets .
without the guidepost of stock-index futures -- the barometer of is headed the overall stock market where think traders -- was many traders afraid stock prices quoted on the big board to trust .
was even assailed the futures halt by big board floor traders .
`` things screwed up , it '' said one major specialist .
one form of program trading , stock index arbitrage , that the futures and stock markets , closely link and has been blamed by some for the market 's big swings effectively halted this confusion .
( in a stock-index arbitrage sell program , big baskets of stocks buy traders or sell and the trade in futures offset a price difference to lock in ) .
`` when came through , the airline information every model had we for the marketplace , cracked it '' said a managing director at one of the largest program-trading firms .
`` a chance the programs to do wanted we to do did n't even get we '' .
but falling kept stocks .
was the dow industrials down 55 points at 3 p.m. before the futures-trading halt .
at 3:30 p.m. , at the end of the `` cooling '' off period , was down 114.76 points the average .
during the the s&p trading halt , piling up , meanwhile , began s&p futures sell orders while falling sharply kept stocks in new york .
`` worked well mechanically the circuit breaker said big board chairman john j. phelan yesterday .
be it nonproductive at this point to get into a debate if things would have helped index arbitrage or hurt just think i '' .
under another post-crash system , ( was flying mr. phelan to bangkok as was falling the market ) was talking big board president richard grasso on an `` inter-exchange hot line '' to the other exchanges , the securities and exchange commission and the federal reserve board .
camped out he at a high-tech nerve center on the floor of the big board , updates on prices and pending stock orders where could watch he .
at about 3:30 p.m. edt , trading , resumed s&p futures and for a brief time to come back in line started the futures and stock markets .
stepped in to the futures pit buyers .
but weighed the build-up of s&p futures sell orders on the market , and to fray again began the link with stocks .
at about 3:45 , careened the s&p market to still another limit , of 30 points down , and was locked again trading .
that as much as 200 points could fall the dow was signaling the s&p say futures traders .
during this time , their brokers , ringing whether had begun another crash wondering began small investors .
this would be the final confidence-crusher thought at prudential-bache securities inc. , which to cater to small investors , is trying some demoralized brokers .
be that that was the plunge only `` mechanical '' to declare when took george l. ball , chairman of the prudential insurance co. of america unit , to the internal intercom system .
`` a hunch that is this particular decline today something ` more ado about less have i ' .
'' it would be my inclination clients to advise not to sell , to look for an opportunity to buy , the brokers told mr. ball .
at merrill lynch & co. , the nation 's biggest brokerage firm , was prepared a news release `` merrill lynch comments on market drop '' headlined .
that `` there is significant differences between the current environment and that of october 1987 '' and that there is still `` attractive investment opportunities '' in the stock market cautioned the release .
that `` relations with customers , to set back is going friday 's plunge '' `` because the concern of volatility reinforce it however , said jeffrey b. lane , president of shearson lehman hutton inc. , .
and will harp a lot of people on program trading think i .
the debate to bring right back to the forefront be going it '' .
as the dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss friday , locked at its 30-point trading limit stayed the s&p pit .
was 2,000 s&p contracts for sale on the close , the equivalent of $ 330 million in stock said jeffrey yass of program trader susquehanna investment group .
but there was no buyers .
while professional traders rather than investors , involved mainly friday 's debacle the market vulnerable to continued selling this morning , left it said traders .
settled stock-index futures contracts at much lower prices than indexes of the stock market itself .
at those levels , to be hammered by index arbitragers , who profits lock in by futures buying when fall futures prices , and stocks simultaneously sell off is set up stocks .
but at what level will open the futures and stocks today know nobody .
the de-linkage between the stock and futures markets friday will undoubtedly cause renewed debate about whether is wall street properly prepared for another crash situation .
`` was our systemic performance good '' said the big board 's mr. grasso , .
but `` will look the exchange at the performance of all specialists in all stocks .
'' a close look at any situation in which was n't met the dealer-community obligations , think we obviously 'll take we said he .
but that just as in the 1987 crash , stayed the `` upstairs '' firms -- big investment banks that the market support by big blocks of stock trading -- on the sidelines during friday 's blood-letting complain privately specialists .
`` will take it another day or two '' who was buying and selling friday to analyze said mr. phelan , .
concerning your sept. 21 page-one article on prince charles and the leeches : be it a few hundred years since england has been a kingdom .
be it now the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland , comprising wales , northern ireland , scotland , and ... oh yes , england , too .
agreements its remaining seven aircraft to sell to buyers that was n't disclosed reached ports of call inc. .
the number of planes have sold the travel company this year as part of a restructuring bring the agreements to a total of nine .
its bank debt and other obligations resulting from the currently suspended air-charter operations to repay will be used a portion of the $ 32 million realized from the sales said the company .
its aging fleet of boeing co. 707s would sell it because of increasing maintenance costs earlier announced the company .
a $ 409 million cash bid for most of l.j. hooker corp. 's real-estate and shopping-center holdings have made it said a consortium of private investors operating as ljh funding co. .
the assumption of an estimated $ 300 million in secured liabilities on those properties , include the $ 409 million bid according to those the bid making .
is led the group by jay shidler , chief executive officer of shidler investment corp. in honolulu , and a. boyd simpson , chief executive of the atlanta-based simpson organization inc .
specialize mr. shidler 's company in commercial real-estate investment and $ 1 billion in assets to have claim ; is mr. simpson a developer and a former senior executive of l.j. hooker .
`` is the assets good , but more money and management than can be provided in l.j. hooker 's current situation , require they '' said mr. simpson in an interview .
to build and sell was hooker 's philosophy .
to build and hold want we '' .
is operating l.j. hooker , based in atlanta , with protection from its creditors under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code .
is currently being managed its parent company , hooker corp. of sydney , australia , by a court-appointed provisional liquidator .
that the bid have not yet seen he but that it would review he and it bring to the attention of the creditors committee said sanford sigoloff , chief executive of l.j. hooker , yesterday in a statement .
is estimated the $ 409 million bid by mr. simpson as 75 % of the value of all hooker real-estate holdings in the u.s. representing .
not included is bonwit teller or b. altman & co. , l.j. hooker 's department-store chains in the bid .
the massive 1.8 million-square-foot forest fair mall in cincinnati , the 800,000 square-foot richland fashion mall in columbia , s.c. , and the 700,000 square-foot thornton town center mall in thornton , colo cover the offer .
opened the thornton mall sept. 19 with a bigg 's hypermarket as its anchor ; to open nov. 15 is expected the columbia mall .
is other hooker properties included a 20-story office tower in midtown atlanta , to be completed next february expected ; vacant land sites in florida and ohio ; l.j. hooker international , the commercial real-estate brokerage company that business once did as merrill lynch commercial real estate , plus other shopping centers .
was put together the consortium by hoare govett , the london-based investment banking company that is a subsidiary of security pacific corp .
`` any problems in the funding for the bid , raising do n't anticipate we '' said allan campbell , the head of mergers and acquisitions at hoare govett , in an interview .
is acting hoare govett as the consortium 's investment bankers .
according to people familiar with the consortium , the bid was code-named project klute , a reference to the film `` klute '' in which is saved a prostitute played by actress jane fonda from a psychotic businessman by a police officer john klute named .
was l.j. hooker a small home-building company based in atlanta in 1979 it to push into commercial development when was hired mr. simpson .
grew modestly the company until 1986 , when was acquired a majority position in hooker corp. by australian developer george herscu , currently hooker 's chairman .
an ambitious , but ill-fated , $ 1 billion acquisition binge that bonwit teller and b. altman & co. , as well as majority positions in merksamer jewelers , a sacramento chain ; sakowitz inc. , the houston-based retailer , and parisian inc. , the southeast department-store chain included to launch proceeded mr. herscu .
a falling out eventually had mr. simpson and mr. herscu over the direction of the company , and resigned he in 1988 said mr. simpson .
since then , its interest in the parisian chain have sold back to parisian 's management hooker corp. and the b. altman & co. chain to sell is currently attempting .
in addition , funds the hooker interest in his company to buy out is seeking robert sakowitz , chief executive of the sakowitz chain , .
is currently being offered the merksamer chain for sale by first boston corp .
reached in honolulu , that profitable can become the various hooker malls with new management believe he said mr. shidler .
`` is these n't mature assets , but the potential to be so , have they '' said mr. shidler .
`` managed properly , and with a long-term outlook , investment-grade quality properties can become these .
291,890 metric tons totaled up 14.8 % from the preceding week 's total of 254,280 tons , canadian steel-ingot production in the week ended oct. 7 , said statistics canada , a federal agency , .
was up 6.2 % from 274,963 tons a year earlier the week 's total .
was the year-to-date total 12,006,883 tons , up 7.8 % from 11,141,711 tons a year earlier .
oct. 26 will be dated the bills and will mature oct. 25 , 1990 .
must be received bids by 1 p.m. edt thursday at the treasury or at federal reserve banks or branches .
as their mutual funds peppered small investors with phone calls over the weekend , a strong defense against any wave of withdrawals : cash have they said big fund managers .
unlike the weekend before black monday , was n't swamped the funds with heavy withdrawal requests .
and cash levels have built up many fund managers and stock will be buying they this week say .
at fidelity investments , the nation 's largest fund company , was up sharply , telephone volume but was it still at just half the level of the weekend preceding black monday in 1987 .
was running stock-fund redemptions at less than one-third the level two years ago said the boston firm .
as of yesterday afternoon , less than 15 % of the total cash position of about $ 2 billion of fidelity 's stock funds represented the redemptions .
`` two years ago there was massive redemption levels over the weekend and a lot of fear around , '' said c. bruce johnstone , who fidelity investments ' $ 5 billion equity-income fund run .
`` feel this more like a one-shot deal .
is n't panicking people '' .
may come the test today .
came too late for to act many investors friday 's stock market sell-off .
have held off some shareholders until today because place would take any fund exchanges made after friday 's close at today 's closing prices .
during the 1987 debacle to snowball did n't begin stock fund redemptions until after opened the market on black monday .
but be they ready say fund managers .
for instance , cash positions well above 20 % hold mario gabelli , in several of his funds .
their cash levels had raised they to more than 20 % and 30 % , respectively , this year said windsor fund 's john neff and mutual series ' michael price .
cash built up even peter lynch , manager of fidelity 's $ 12.7 billion magellan fund , the nation 's largest stock fund , to 7 % or $ 850 million .
that after two years of monthly net redemptions , net inflows of money from investors posted the fund in august and september is one reason .
`` build up , the money have let i '' who that trouble stocks likes he finding has had he added said mr. lynch , .
cash levels , have raised not all funds of course .
as a group , 10.2 % of assets the latest figures available from the investment company institute held stock funds in cash as of august , .
was that modestly higher than the 8.8 % and 9.2 % levels in august and september of 1987 .
some fund managers stocks to dump cash to raise also , would force persistent redemptions .
but is a strong level of investor withdrawals much more unlikely this time around , said fund managers .
that their purchases of stock funds already have sharply scaled back investors since black monday is a major reason .
have rebounded stock-fund sales in recent months , but is still running monthly net purchases at less than half 1987 levels .
`` there be not nearly as much froth , '' said john bogle , chairman of vanguard group inc. , a big valley forge , pa. , fund company .
that 's now the time to buy argue many fund managers .
added vincent bajakian , manager of the $ 1.8 billion wellington fund , to his positions in bristol-myers squibb , woolworth and dun & bradstreet friday .
and today drug stocks like eli lilly , pfizer and american home products have been bolstered whose dividend yields by stock declines to buy 'll be looking he .
for his part , southern co. shares snapped up fidelity 's mr. lynch , friday after got hammered the stock .
if drop further the market today , blue chips such as bristol-myers and kellogg 'll be buying he said he .
`` if stocks like that , croak they '' said he , an opportunity that is `` the kind of thing dream you about '' present it .
was arriving phone calls at twice the normal weekend pace yesterday said major mutual-fund groups .
but share prices and other information was seeking most investors .
was trading volume only modestly higher than normal .
any chances still , is n't taking fund groups .
the jammed phone lines and other snags that some fund investors infuriated in october 1987 to avoid hope they .
on saturday its 54 walk-in investor centers across the country opened fidelity .
normally is the centers closed through the weekend .
in addition , will open east coast centers at 7:30 edt this morning , instead of the normal 8:30 .
its staff of phone representatives investor requests to handle increased t. rowe price associates inc. .
that money moved some investors from stock funds to money-market funds noted the baltimore-based group .
but to be `` in an information mode rather than in a transaction mode , '' seemed most investors said steven norwitz , a vice president .
and among other groups , more phone representatives was adding it today get through investors to help said vanguard , .
in an unusual move , investors to calm with recordings on their toll-free phone lines moved several funds .
`` -lcb- friday 's -rcb- market decline view we as a buying opportunity offering us as long-term investors , '' said a recording at gabelli & co. funds over the weekend .
a similar recording had the janus group for investors .
a rough market this morning expect several fund managers before stabilize prices .
is some early selling likely to stem from investors and portfolio managers who this year 's fat profits to lock in want .
a staggering gain of 25 % have averaged stock funds through september , according to lipper analytical services inc .
will open down at least 50 points on technical factors and `` some panic selling '' the market predict elaine garzarelli , who shearson lehman hutton inc. 's $ 335 million sector analysis portfolio , run .
but prices to rebound soon expect she and investors more than 10 % to 15 % wo n't decline the stock market from recent highs expect she is telling .
`` is this not a major crash , '' said she .
was swamped she with phone calls over the weekend from nervous shareholders nevertheless , said ms. garzarelli .
`` is half of them really scared and to sell , want '' said she , `` but '' them to talk out of it be trying i .
`` if all was they bullish , i 'd really be upset '' added she , .
was the backdrop to friday 's slide markedly different from that of the october 1987 crash , argue fund managers .
two years ago , unlike today , was the dollar weak , was rising interest rates and was the market very overvalued , say they .
`` from the investors ' standpoint , a painful lesson learned institutions and individuals ... by selling at the lows on black monday , '' said stephen boesel , manager of the $ 580 million t. rowe price growth and income fund .
this time , `` a panic reaction 'll get we do n't think i .
fiscal-first-quarter earnings of between 15 cents and 19 cents a share , somewhat below analysts ' estimates of 19 cents to 23 cents to report expect it said newport corp. .
fell orders below expectations in recent months said the maker of scientific instruments and laser parts .
that will the yearearlier quarter 's figure , net income of $ 1.7 million , or 21 cents a share , on $ 14.1 million in sales when reported newport about equal sales in the current quarter added a spokesman .
air carriers reached ripples from the strike by 55,000 machinists union members against boeing co. friday as its new service out of houston will postpone it because of delays in aircraft receiving from the seattle jet maker announced america west airlines .
that `` some turmoil in our scheduling have caused the work stoppage at boeing , now entering its 13th day , '' and that would now be put more than 500 passengers who to fly out of houston on america west were booked on other airlines said peter otradovec , vice president for planning at the phoenix , ariz. , carrier , in an interview .
america west that would n't be delivered the 757 to get this thursday was supposed it until nov. 7 -- the day after service at houston to initiate with four daily flights , including three nonstops to phoenix and one nonstop to las vegas had been planning the airline told boeing said mr. otradovec .
to begin now , is n't expected those routes until jan .
another 757 twin-engine aircraft as well as a 737 to send to america west by year 's end is also supposed boeing .
too , is those , almost certain to arrive late .
at this point , have been affected no other america west flights -- including its new service at san antonio , texas ; newark , n.j. ; and palmdale , calif. -- by the delays in boeing deliveries .
the domino effect that can have a huge manufacturer such as boeing on other parts of the economy nevertheless , underscore the company 's reaction .
also is it sure added pressure put the machinists on the company to help .
`` that a prolonged walkout , can really stand the company or would want just do n't feel i '' said tom baker , president of machinists ' district 751 , in an interview yesterday .
`` it would like very much their customers do n't think i '' .
though , is america west , a smaller airline and than would be many of its competitors therefore more affected by the delayed delivery of a single plane .
`` that such a hard time all the planes in their fleets , counting one might not miss they at all , probably have american and united figure i '' said mr. otradovec .
that much of an effect on other airline operations was having the strike to indicate indeed , did n't seem a random check friday .
a boeing 737-300 set for delivery at the end of this month have southwest airlines and the plane to have on time expect .
`` be it so close to completion , us there wo n't be a problem , be told boeing '' said a southwest spokesman .
american airlines have assured boeing a 757 will deliver it on time later this month said a spokesman for amr corp. .
delivery to take of another 757 in early december and 20 more next year is preparing american and any changes in that timetable is n't anticipating .
in seattle , that the company has been in constant communication with all of its customers and that was it impossible might be triggered what further disruptions by the strike to predict explained a boeing spokesman .
some 40 aircraft -- mostly 747 and 767 jumbo jets at the company 's everett , wash. , plant -- that were all but completed before the walkout to finish meanwhile , have been trying supervisors and non-striking employees .
as of friday , had been delivered four and to be flown out over the weekend to air china was supposed a fifth plane , a 747-400 , .
to get back to the bargaining table have yet been set no date .
`` sure what want they before come back , they know they to make want we '' said doug hammond , the federal mediator who has been in contact with both sides since began the strike .
for one , a speedy resolution have been anticipating the investment community , .
though was battered along with the rest of the market boeing 's stock price friday , actually have risen it over the last two weeks on the strength of new orders .
`` two views : that will get settled the labor situation in the short term and that very rosy look things for boeing in the long term , have taken the market '' said howard rubel , an analyst at cyrus j. lawrence inc .
$ 4 fell boeing 's shares friday to close at $ 57.375 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange .
but the earliest could be struck a pact would be the end of this month , think he that negotiations may resume as early as this week the company and union hinting said mr. baker .
still , said he , be it possible that could last considerably longer the strike .
`` an immediate resolution to anything would n't expect i '' .
last week , a letter , sent boeing chairman frank shrontz striking workers that `` to my knowledge , the best overall three-year contract of any major u.s. industrial firm in recent history represent boeing 's offer '' saying .
but the letter -- and the company 's offer of a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus bonuses -- `` very weak '' called mr. baker .
that the union 's resolve and the workers ' disgust with many hours to work overtime being forced miscalculated the company added he .
in separate developments : -- have broken off talks between machinists representatives at lockheed corp. and the calabasas , calif. , aerospace company .
to work through its expired contract , is continuing however the union .
a strike vote had planned it for next sunday , but has been pushed back indefinitely that .
-- its contract to extend on a day-by-day basis , with a 10-day notification to cancel , while bargaining continue it agreed it said united auto workers local 1069 , which 3,000 workers at boeing 's helicopter unit in delaware county , pa. , represent .
expired the accord yesterday .
-- and on friday an order received it from martinair holland for four model 767-300 wide-body jetliners valued at a total of about $ 326 million said boeing .
will be delivered the planes , long range versions of the medium-haul twin-jet , with pratt & whitney pw4060 engines .
is pratt & whitney a unit of united technologies inc .
is based martinair holland in amsterdam .
is still being worked out a delivery date for the planes `` for a variety of reasons , but not because of the strike '' said a boeing spokeswoman .
contributed bridget o'brian to this article .
is considering its utilities arm new electric power plants , some valued at more than one billion canadian dollars ( us$ 851 million ) , in great britain and elsewhere building said atco ltd. .
cogeneration projects in eastern canada , and conventional electric power generating plants elsewhere , including britain , where the british government plans limited competition in electrical generation from private-sector suppliers to allow as part of its privatization program is reviewing its 50.1%-owned canadian utilities ltd. unit said c.s. richardson , atco 's senior vice president , finance , .
`` is the projects big .
'' they can be c$ 1 billion plus , said mr. richardson .
`` but would n't go alone , we into them '' and canadian utilities ' equity stake would be small , said he .
`` to be the operator -lcb- of the project -rcb- and a modest equity investor ideally , 'd like we .
is our long suit our proven ability power plants , to operate '' said he .
specifics atco 's proposed british project , regarding would n't offer mr. richardson but would compete it with two huge british power generating companies that would be formed under the country 's plan its massive water and electric utilities to privatize for customers said he .
about # 20 billion ( $ 31.05 billion ) to raise from the sale of most of its giant water and electric utilities , beginning next month plan britain 's government .
# 13 billion , to raise it the world 's largest public offering making is alone expected the planned electric utility sale , scheduled for next year , .
1988 revenue of c$ 1.16 billion , had canadian utilities mainly from its natural gas and electric utility businesses in alberta , about 800,000 customers where serve the company .
`` to be a move around the world the generation of electricity , to deregulate there seems '' said mr. richardson , and to capitalize on it hope canadian utilities .
`` is this a real thrust on our utility side , '' that projects in underdeveloped countries , is also mulling canadian utilities adding though he would be specific said he , .
is canadian utilities n't alone in power generation opportunities in britain , exploring in anticipation of the privatization program .
`` be certainly looking we at some power generating projects in england , '' said bruce stram , vice president , corporate strategy and corporate planning , with enron corp. , houston , a big natural gas producer and pipeline operator .
is considering enron gas-fired power plants capable of about 500 megawatts of power producing building in the u.k. at a cost of about $ 300 million to $ 400 million said mr. stram .
third earnings of $ 1.3 million to $ 1.7 million , or 14 cents to 18 cents a share to report expect it said pse inc. .
in the year-ago quarter , net income of $ 326,000 , or four cents a share , had the designer and operator of cogeneration and waste heat recovery plants on revenue of about $ 41.4 million .
is related the improvement to additional cogeneration facilities that have been put into operation said the company .
is concorde trans-atlantic flights $ 2,400 to paris and $ 3,200 to london .
in a centennial journal article oct. 5 , was reversed the fares .
gas had discovered offshore louisiana it said diamond shamrock offshore partners .
is diamond shamrock the operator , with a 100 % interest in the well .
12.5 cents rose diamond shamrock offshore 's stock friday to close at $ 8.25 in new york stock exchange composite trading .
a $ 53.4 million limited partnership subsidiary land in california suitable for residential development to buy formed it said kaufman & broad home corp. .
is the partnership , kaufman & broad land development venture limited partnership , a 50-50 joint venture with a trust created by institutional clients of heitman advisory corp. , a unit of heitman financial corp. , a real estate advisory , management and development company with offices in chicago and beverly hills , calif .
the institutional investors to identify declined kaufman & broad , a home building company , .
zoning and other approvals required for development , have n't yet received the land to be purchased by the joint venture and such approvals to obtain will be part of kaufman & broad 's job .
the risk that the approvals for development , may not get it run the partnership but in return , land can buy it at wholesale rather than retail prices , which can result in sizable savings , said bruce karatz , president and chief executive officer of kaufman & broad .
`` there is really very few companies that adequate capital properties in a raw state to buy for cash have .
'' property , typically , option developers and once the administrative approvals , get they it , then buy they said mr. karatz , that is the joint venture the first of its kind believe he adding .
`` usually operate we in that conservative manner '' .
by the joint venture , setting up the more aggressive approach of raw land , buying can take kaufman & broad while the negative impacts to its own balance sheet , avoiding said mr. karatz .
only 10 % of the capital , is putting up the company although is it responsible for management , planning and processing services providing to the joint venture .
`` is this one of the best ways a pipeline of land our growth to fuel to assure at a minimum risk to our company , '' said mr. karatz .
when took off the price of plastics in 1987 , went along quantum chemical corp. for the ride .
to be nothing less than inspired , appeared the timing of quantum 's chief executive officer , john hoyt stookey , because quantum 's reliance on plastics had just increased he .
much of the chemical industry outpaced the company as grew fivefold annual profit in two years .
`` to last a whole lot longer than think anybody be going it '' said mr. stookey of the boom , .
but now have nose-dived prices and is plummeting quantum 's profit .
is looking some securities analysts for no better than break-even results from the company for the third quarter , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , on sales of $ 724.4 million .
nearly a quarter of its value having lost since sept. 1 , closed down $ 1.125 , the stock , at $ 34.375 share , in new york stock exchange composite trading friday .
to a degree , the new times that have arrived for producers of the so-called commodity plastics that modern life pervade represent quantum .
having just passed through one of the most profitable periods in their history , now see these producers eroding their prices .
to be sure , is pricing cycles , nothing new for plastics producers .
and steep look the financial decline of some only in comparison with the heady period that is just behind them .
`` was we all wonderful heroes last year , '' say an executive at one of quantum 's competitors .
`` now be we at the bottom of the heap . ''
is magnified at quantum , which is based in new york , the trouble by the company 's heavy dependence on plastics .
once known as national distillers & chemical corp. , the wine and spirits business exited the company and more of its resources plowed into plastics after the chief executive 's job took mr. stookey in 1986 .
to be interviewed for this article , declined mr. stookey , 59 years old , but that over the long haul -- across both the peaks and the troughs of the plastics market -- will prosper quantum through its new direction have consistently argued he .
is mostly tied quantum 's lot to polyethylene resin , garbage bags , milk jugs , housewares , toys and meat packaging , among other items to make used .
in the u.s. polyethylene market , the largest share , about 20 % have claimed quantum .
but much broader business interests have its competitors -- including dow chemical co. , union carbide corp. and several oil giants -- and so are better cushioned against price swings .
a mere penny a pound , when move the price of polyethylene fluctuate quantum 's annual profit by about 85 cents a share , provided is changing no other variables .
in recent months a dive even more than that of other commodity plastics , have taken the price of polyethylene , .
have skidded benchmark grades , which still sold for as much as 50 cents a pound last spring , to between 35 cents and 40 cents .
meanwhile , have n't dropped nearly so fast the price of ethylene , the chemical building block of polyethylene , .
quantum hurt badly , that discrepancy because only about half of its ethylene needs cover its own plants .
by many accounts , came an early hint of a price rout in the making at the start of this year .
them abruptly halted china , which huge orders for polyethylene , had been putting in .
that would soon be sloshing excess polyethylene around the world , calculating that prices had peaked then bet other buyers and so inventories to draw down rather than new product order began .
how much had swelled inventories throughout the distribution chain as spiraled up prices to learn was surprised producers say kenneth mitchell , director of dow 's polyethylene business , .
`` bags , was even hoarding people '' say he .
bottom have hit prices now hope producers .
increases of a few cents a pound effect to take in the next several weeks recently announced they .
whether will stick the new posted prices once to haggle start producers and customers know however , no one , .
is one doubter george krug , a chemical-industry analyst at oppenheimer & co. and a bear on plastics stocks .
others ' estimates of when can be sustained price increases , noting `` say some october remark he , .
1992 say i '' .
that will be undermined efforts prices to firm up by producers ' plans production capacity to expand argue he .
is a quick turnaround crucial to quantum because heavy remain its cash requirements .
a three-year , $ 1.3 billion plant-expansion program started this year to carry out is trying the company .
at the same time , will more than double its annual payments on long-term debt from a year ago to about $ 240 million , largely because of debt a $ 50-a-share special dividend to pay earlier this year taken on .
the payout described quantum at the time as a way for the bonanza to share it with its holders , because the huge profit increases was n't reflecting its stock price .
the payment saw some analysts as an effort takeover speculation also to dispel .
whether the company its quarterly dividend , 36 % raised only a year ago , to 75 cents a share to cut might eventually force a cash crunch a topic of intense speculation has become on wall street since dividend questions deflected mr. stookey in a sept. 29 meeting with analysts .
his response -- that the dividend review regularly company directors -- viewed some as nothing more than the standard line from executives .
but something less than his usual straight-from-the-shoulder performance had given he thinking came away others .
in any case , on the day of the meeting , $ 2.625 slid quantum 's shares to $ 36.625 in big board trading .
on top of everything else , a disaster at its plant in morris , ill confront quantum .
after the plant idled an explosion in june , progressed the company in september to within 12 hours of the drawn-out process of it restarting completing .
then occurred a second explosion .
died two workers and remain six in the hospital .
the most painful dimension yet add this human toll to the sudden change in quantum 's fortunes .
until this year , its accident rate had been steadily lowering the company and trade-group safety awards picking up .
another imponderable could introduce a prolonged production halt at the plant into quantum 's financial future .
demand , to meet when have just been running flat out a plant lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance calculating is straightforward .
but trickier -- and subject to dickering between insured and insurer -- become the numbers when is shifting demand .
`` x percent of this product and y percent of that , could have sold you say you '' recall theodore semegran , an analyst at shearson lehman hutton who went through this exercise during his former career as a chemical engineer .
full operation will resume the morris plant , where got limited production under way last week , by year 's end hope quantum .
usually account the plant for 20 % to 25 % of quantum 's polyethylene production and 50 % of its ethylene production .
grim look not everything for quantum .
the company 's sway in the polyethylene business , where is often taken market share through sheer capacity should strengthen the plant expansion .
by ethylene production , lifting the company 's raw material costs will also lower the expansion .
its grip on its one large business outside chemicals , propane marketing is also tightening quantum .
through a venture with its investment banker , first boston corp. , an acquisition of petrolane inc. completed quantum in august in a transaction valued at $ 1.18 billion .
is petrolane the second-largest propane distributor in the u.s. .
a crisis to get past still , have right now quantum .
a suitor may yet attract the weakening stock speculate some analysts .
is the name surfacing in rumors british petroleum co. , which its polyethylene business in the u.s. to expand is looking .
asked about a bid for quantum , say a bp spokesman , `` a policy of not commenting on rumors , pretty much have we and fall that in that category think i .
its division responsible for network advertising time , buying is disbanding rjr nabisco inc. just a month after 11 of the group 's 14 employees moving to new york from atlanta .
that the rjr nabisco broadcast unit , is shutting down it and its 14 employees , dismissing in a move money to save confirmed a spokesman for the new york-based food and tobacco giant , private taken earlier this year in a $ 25 billion leveraged buy-out by kohlberg kravis roberts & co. , .
its network-buying plans is discussing rjr with its two main advertising firms , fcb/leber katz and mccann erickson said the spokesman .
`` that just as good a job could do an ad agency at significantly lower cost , found we with the size of our media purchases '' said the spokesman , who how much spend rjr on network television time to specify declined .
about $ 140 million is spending down from roughly $ 200 million last year rjr on network television time this year , said an executive close to the company .
said the spokesman will be disbanded the broadcast unit dec. 1 , and rjr 's print , radio and spot-television buying practices wo n't affect the move .
had been based the broadcast group in new york until it a year ago , when moved rjr 's previous management to atlanta , the company 's headquarters before this summer .
11 employees of the group moved back to new york rjr in september because `` to be a future there was supposed '' said one employee with the group .
three more buyers hired the company for the unit within the past two weeks , them wooing from jobs with advertising agencies said he .
the 11 employees moved the company to new york last month because the group had then been in the midst of ad time for the networks ' upcoming season purchasing said the rjr spokesman .
`` could n't be completed the studies -lcb- on the unit closing -rcb- until now , '' said he .
was the group 's president , peter chrisanthopoulos , n't in his office friday afternoon to comment .
a larger share of its steel market is allocating the u.s. , which its steel-import quotas , is finalizing to developing and newly industrialized countries which relatively unsubsidized steel industries have .
a significant cut in japan 's steel quota , meanwhile , have negotiated the u.s. and only a minor increase to the steel allotment for the european community made .
a somewhat bigger share of the u.s. market than had it under the previous five-year steel quotas , which expired sept. 30 to negotiate is expected brazil , similar to mexico and south korea , .
is brazil and venezuela the only two countries that steel talks with the u.s. for the year ending oct. 1 , 1990 have n't completed .
in recent years , about 80 % of the 100 million tons of steel used annually by the nation have supplied u.s. steelmakers .
of the remaining 20 % needed , about 15 % allocate the steel-quota negotiations to foreign suppliers , with supplied the difference mainly by canada -- which is n't included in the quota program .
steel also have supplied other countries that formal steel quotas with the u.s. , do n't have such as taiwan , sweden and argentina , .
earlier this year steel quotas , known as voluntary restraint agreements , would extend it until march 31 , 1992 said the bush administration .
that two-and-a-half year period would use it to work toward an international consensus on the international steel trade , which has been notoriously managed , subsidized and protected by governments freeing up also said it .
its plan , a `` trade liberalization program , '' termed the u.s. despite the fact that is it merely an extension .
its quota virtually doubled mexico , which was one of the first countries its steel talks with the u.s. , to conclude to 0.95 % of the u.s. steel market from 0.48 % under the previous quotas .
a small increase to about 1.95 % to get is set south korea , which 1.9 % had under the previous quotas , .
rise that increase to slightly more than 2 % of the u.s. market if is included a joint korean-u.s. steel project .
its allowance to increase from the 1.43 % share have had it in recent years meanwhile , is expected brazil .
their quotas have n't been filling the ec and japan -- the u.s. 's largest steel suppliers -- to the full extent .
about 5 % of the u.s. market compared with recent quotas of about 6.7 % have been supplying the ec steel industry , which has been coping with strong european demand , .
steel about 4.5 % of the u.s. market compared with a quota of 5.9 % to total have been shipping japan .
in the recent talks , about 300,000 tons , increased its quota to 7 % of the u.s. market from 6.7 % in 1988 had the ec .
its quota to cut to about 5 % from 5.9 % previously however , have agreed japan , .
about 80 % of the steel imported to the u.s. under the quota program provide japan , the ec , brazil , mexico and south korea .
is supplied the balance by a host of smaller exporters , such as australia and venezuela .
about an extra 2 % of the domestic steel market to give to foreign suppliers in its quota talks had the u.s. .
was essentially made up that of a 1 % increase in the overall quota program and 1 % from japan 's allowance cutting .
these quota negotiations will repeat negotiators from the white house trade office next year another 1 % of the u.s. steel market to allocate when will have they .
leverage with foreign steel suppliers them subsidies and protectionism to withdraw from their own steel industries to get to try to give its negotiators is built these optional 1%-a-year increases to the steel quota program into the bush administration 's steel-quota program .
fiscal second-quarter earnings 1988 results , to trail expect elcotel inc. but that will lead several new products to a `` much stronger '' performance in its second half anticipate .
net income of $ 272,000 , or five cents a share , had elcotel , a telecommunications company , in its year-earlier second quarter , ended sept. 30 .
$ 5 million totaled revenue .
that earnings in the most recent quarter will be about two cents a share on revenue of just under $ 4 million said george pierce , chairman and chief executive officer , in an interview .
said mr. pierce , a 12-month decline in industry sales of privately owned pay telephones , elcotel 's primary business reflect the lower results , .
although that line of business to strengthen in the next year , expect mr. pierce will also benefit elcotel from moving into other areas said he .
foremost among those is the company 's entrance into the public facsimile business , said mr. pierce .
within the next year , 10,000 fax machines , made by minolta in japan , to place in hotels , municipal buildings , drugstores and other public settings around the country expect elcotel .
a credit-card reader for billing data to collect the machines , store and forward will provide elcotel .
a minimum of $ 10 of recurring net earnings should realize elcotel for each machine each month said mr. pierce .
an automatic call processor that further use will make of the company 's system for credit-card calls and collect calls automating and handling have also developed elcotel .
that system will provide automatic call processors for virtually any telephone , said mr. pierce , not just phones produced by elcotel .
a new line of convenience telephones , which coins , do n't accept for use in hotel lobbies , office lobbies , hospitality lounges and similar settings will also be producing the company .
that about $ 5 of recurring net earnings would produce the processors and convenience phones for each machine each month estimated mr. pierce .
0.7 % rose britain 's retail price index in september from august and was up 7.6 % for the year , said the central statistical office .
a shareholders ' rights plan in which will be distributed rights shares of common stock to purchase as a dividend to shareholders of record as of oct. 23 adopted it said quest medical inc. .
was n't adopted the plan in response to any known offers for quest , a maker and marketer of hospital products said the company .
shareholders quest stock to purchase at a discount if more than 15 % of the company 's common stock acquire any person or group or a tender offer announce allow the rights .
may soon be replaced measuring cups by tablespoons in the laundry room .
a superconcentrated detergent that only a few spoonfuls per washload will require testing next month to begin plan procter & gamble co. .
stem the move from lessons learned in japan phenomenal success where have had local competitors with concentrated soapsuds .
p&g 's growing concern that their superconcentrates may bring its japanese rivals , such as kao corp. , to the u.s. also mark it .
got clobbered two years ago the cincinnati consumer-products giant in japan a powerful detergent , attack , called which a 30 % stake in the japanese markets quickly won when introduced kao .
`` to get caught again , do n't want they '' say one industry watcher .
p&g 's new powdered detergent -- cheer with color guard to be called -- will be on shelves in that market by early november say retailers in phoenix , ariz. , .
that started shipments to phoenix late last month confirmed a p&g spokeswoman .
results from this market will study the company before expanding to others said she .
is superconcentrates n't entirely new for p&g .
a superconcentrated lemon cheer introduced the company in japan after the success of attack watching .
the shelves when hit attack in 1987 , fell p&g 's share of the japanese market to about 8 % from more than 20 % .
with the help of lemon cheer , to be 12 % is now estimated p&g 's share .
while the compact packaging and convenience of concentrated products , have embraced the japanese the true test for p&g will be in the $ 4 billion u.s. detergent market , where is growth slow and prominence over powders have gained liquids .
the product to market under the cheer name may have chosen the company since its best-selling tide be already expanded it into 16 different varieties , including this year 's big hit , tide with bleach .
with superconcentrates , however , is it n't always easy consumers to persuade that is less more ; too much detergent to dump into the washing machine , that a cup of powder take it the laundry to really clean believing tend many people .
in the early 1980s , a concentrated detergent to launch here under the ariel brand name that market it in europe tried p&g .
but bombed the product , which was n't as concentrated as the new cheer , in a market test in denver and was dropped .
consumers to hook on detergent and fabric softener combinations in pouches , also have tried repeatedly p&g and others but have n't sold well , they despite the convenience .
but contend p&g is the new cheer a unique formula that an ingredient that colors prevent from fading also offer .
and the product , to embrace is expected retailers in part because less shelf space will take up it .
`` when was shelf space cheap , was bigger better , '' say hugh zurkuhlen , an analyst at salomon bros .
but with vying so many brands for space , be that no longer the case .
if sell well , the new cheer is the trend toward smaller packaging likely to accelerate as follow competitors with their own superconcentrates .
`` the -lcb- less-established -rcb- brands then will probably push out altogether , retailers '' say he .
is competition bound tougher to get if a product like attack introduce kao in the u.s. .
to be sure , an easy time u.s. market share taking away from the mighty p&g , which about 23 % of the market have would n't have kao .
is they interested in detergents selling in the u.s. , previously have said kao officials but so far have focused the company on acquisitions , such as last year 's purchase of andrew jergens co. , a cincinnati hand-lotion maker .
a product-testing facility also have it in california .
go p&g 's interest in a superconcentrated detergent beyond the concern for the japanese believe some .
`` is this something would do p&g with or without kao , '' say mr. zurkuhlen .
with worsening economic tension between the u.s. and japan , last week 's visit from u.s. trade representative carla hills had feared many japanese .
a new barrage of demands that something do quickly japan its trade surplus with the u.s. to reduce expected they .
a discussion of the need for to work together the u.s. and japan and of the importance of the long-term view instead , got they .
a completely different tone from last month 's visit by commerce secretary robert a. mosbacher had mrs. hills ' first trip to japan as america 's chief trade negotiator .
called mr. mosbacher for concrete results by next spring in negotiations over fundamental japanese business practices that free trade supposedly inhibit .
such results should be `` measurable in dollars and cents '' in the u.s. trade deficit with japan reducing said he .
but speaking at a breakfast meeting of the american chamber of commerce in japan on saturday , that `` definitive action to get by spring or summer , is not the objective a blueprint for action to have is rather it '' stressed mrs. hills , .
that `` a down payment ... some small step the american people and the japanese people that be moving we in earnest to convince perhaps to have '' expected she added she .
clear wo n't become how translate such remarks into policy for months .
several theories for the difference in approach betwen mr. mosbacher and mrs. hills offered american and japanese officials .
is getting out of hand the rhetoric on both sides may feel the bush administration said others .
and the growing debate in washington over free trade with japan versus some kind of managed trade pursuing reflected it said some .
her visit to compare to mr. mosbacher 's , asked replied mrs. hills : `` every word spoke he , did n't hear i but as a general proposition , a very consistent trade strategy have we in the bush administration think i '' .
often was her tone surprisingly `` conciliatory '' yet said more than one american official who sat in with her during three days of talks with japanese officials .
`` my line has been very consistent , think i '' said mrs. hills at a news conference saturday afternoon .
`` be painted sometimes i as ferocious , because a ferocious list of statutes to implement perhaps have i .
very ferocious do n't feel i .
either hard or soft do n't feel i .
committed to the program of markets opening and trade expanding feel i '' .
the local press when met she for the first time on friday , the need for progress in barriers to trade in forest products , satellites and supercomputers , three areas targeted under the super 301 provision of the 1988 trade bill removing firmly reiterated mrs. hills .
exclusionary business practices that have identified the u.s. government highlighted she .
but the importance of world-wide free trade and open competition to promote was her main thrust .
was the trade imbalance mainly due to macroeconomic factors and should n't be tackled by quantitative targets setting said she .
at her news conference for japanese reporters , the japanese sense of relief summed up one economics journalist .
`` that you would be a scary old lady , was my impression '' a few nervous chuckles drawing from his colleagues said he , .
mrs. hills ' remarks did raise questions , at least among some u.s. officials , about what exactly is her stance on u.s. access to the japanese semiconductor market .
a 1986 agreement have interpreted many americans as a 20 % share by 1991 , assuring u.s. companies but any such promise making have denied the japanese .
at one of her news conferences , `` can do much better than 20 % we believe i '' said mrs. hills , .
but `` i am against managed trade stressed she , .
will not enter i into an agreement that stipulate to a percentage of the market .
a net loss for the fourth quarter that ended june 30 to report expect it and new financing is seeking said traditional industries inc. .
a number of financing alternatives , including increases in its credit lines seeking is considering it said the seller of photographic products and services .
the amount of the loss to estimate declined traditional and would n't say if a profit for the year to show expect it .
in the year ended june 30 , 1988 , net income of $ 4.9 million , or $ 1.21 a share reported traditional .
its fourth-quarter results did n't break out the company .
in the latest nine months was net income $ 4.7 million , or $ 1.31 a share , on revenue of $ 44.3 million .
a delayed fiscal-year report would file it with the securities and exchange commission `` within approximately 45 days '' separately , said the company .
resulted the delay from difficulties in its accounting of a settlement with the federal trade commission resolving said it .
under an agreement filed in federal court in august ftc objections to some traditional sales practices , to settle a $ 250,000 trust fund refunds to provide to certain customers would establish it said traditional .
was sued it by a buyer of its computerized newspaper-publishing system , that deficiencies in the system to correct failed the company alleging said information international inc. .
restitution of the system 's about $ 3 million purchase price and cancellation of a software license provided by the morris units to information international seek the lawsuit by two units of morris communications corp. for alleged failure royalties to pay said a spokesman for information international .
that filed in federal court in georgia , is the complaints , without merit believe it said information international .
is based closely held morris communications in augusta , ga .
is the units that the suit filed southeastern newspapers corp. and florida publishing co .
the sale of its a. sulka & co. subsidiary , a men 's luxury haberdashery , to luxco investments completed syms corp. .
was n't disclosed terms .
`` as grow syms 's core business of off-price retailing , a difficult distraction , become a small subsidiary that is operationally unrelated '' said marcy syms , president of the parent , in a statement .
a total of seven stores operate sulka in the u.s. and overseas said a spokeswoman .
25 off-price apparel stores operate syms in the u.s. .
could persist the oil industry 's middling profits through the rest of the year .
in the next few days much less robust earnings than they did for the third quarter a year ago , largely reflecting deteriorating chemical prices and gasoline profitability to report is expected major oil companies .
may improve the gasoline picture this quarter , but is chemicals likely weak , chances that their year-earlier performance could equal profits reducing to remain say industry executives and analysts , .
`` a softening somewhat in volume and certainly in price in petrochemicals , is seeing the industry '' said glenn cox , president of phillips petroleum co. , in an interview .
`` third and fourth quarter earnings for the industry in general , will obviously impact that change '' added he .
phillips 's results did n't forecast he .
but phillips will be among the companies hard-hit by weak chemical prices and a drop in third-quarter earnings will probably post say securities analysts .
so , too , predict many analysts , will exxon corp. , chevron corp. and amoco corp .
13 % have plunged it since july to around 26 cents a pound .
peaking at about 34 cents last december a year ago sold ethylene for 33 cents , .
is a big reason for the chemical price retreat overexpansion .
beginning in mid-1987 , accelerating began prices as demand spurred a growing u.s. economy and the weak dollar .
capacity added furiously companies .
now , is greatly increased supplies on the market , while is the dollar stronger , and is domestic economic growth slower .
was third-quarter profits from gasoline weaker .
`` was refining margins so good in the third quarter of last year and generally not very good this year , '' said william randol , a securities analyst at first boston corp .
to prepare for a robust holiday driving season in july and august that did n't materialize ran flat out oil company refineries .
gasoline prices pushed down the excess supply in that period .
in addition , profitability further pressuring was up some from a year earlier , crude oil prices .
picked up margins in september , say refiners and will rebound gasoline profits this quarter , though still not to the level of 1988 's fourth quarter believe many industry officials .
during the 1988 second half , record gasoline and chemical profits posted many companies .
to be the most surprising element of companies ' earnings this year may turn out crude oil production .
-- averaging roughly $ 2 a barrel higher in the third quarter than a year earlier -- have stayed prices well above most companies ' expectations .
demand has been much stronger than anticipated , and typically accelerate it in the fourth quarter .
`` higher oil prices could see we this year , '' said bryan jacoboski , an analyst at painewebber inc .
will translate that into sharply higher production profits , particularly compared with last year when steadily fell oil prices to below $ 13 a barrel in the fourth quarter .
in the third quarter , about 5 % less than they were in 1988 averaged they .
weather remain the main reason .
was last summer notable for a heat wave and drought that utilities more natural gas to burn increased electrical demand from air conditioning use to feed caused .
on the other hand , milder weather than usual had this summer , .
`` we 've been very disappointed in the performance of natural gas prices , '' said mr. cox , phillips 's president .
`` fourth quarter performance to assist as had expected many is not going the lagging gas price '' .
going into the fourth quarter , is natural gas prices anywhere from 8 % to 17 % lower than a year earlier .
for instance , is selling down 13 % from $ 1.69 a thousand cubic feet a year ago natural gas currently produced along the gulf coast on the spot market for around $ 1.47 a thousand cubic feet , .
to blunt growing demands from western europe for a relaxation of controls on exports to the soviet bloc , trying whether militarily valuable technology supplied italy 's ing . c. olivetti & co. to the soviets is questioning the bush administration , .
to argue for more liberal export rules at a meeting to be held in paris oct. 25 and 26 are expected most of the western european members of coordinating committee on multilateral export controls , the unofficial forum through which their export-control policies , align the u.s. and its allies .
to press specifically for a relaxation of rules exports of machine tools , computers and other high-technology products governing plan they .
but evidence that is complying fully all cocom members with existing export-control procedures to see before further liberalization will support it want it say the bush administration .
its point , to make the italian government is challenging it reports that the soviet union may have supplied olivetti with sophisticated computer-driven devices that parts for combat aircraft to build could be used to explain .
a u.s. intelligence report cited the london sunday times , which the u.s. concerns , first reported as the source of the allegations that $ 25 million in `` embargoed , state-of-the-art , flexible manufacturing systems '' exported olivetti to the soviet aviation industry .
these tools shipping reportedly began olivetti in 1984 .
that the allegations is discussing the u.s. with the italian government and cocom , acknowledged a state department spokesman but any details to confirm declined .
a quick investigation into whether cocom rules broke olivetti promised italian president francesco cossiga .
his attention called president bush to the matter during the italian leader 's visit here last week .
that cocom rules , violated it that was properly licensed the reported shipments by the italian authorities asserting have denied olivetti .
although is the legality of these sales still an open question , the position of export-control hawks in the pentagon and the intelligence community to support could n't be better timed the disclosure .
`` that break a story like this just before every important cocom meeting , seem it to me '' said a washington lobbyist for a number of u.s. computer companies .
conflicting signals about its export-control policies , have sent the bush administration unhealed divisions among several competing agencies reflecting .
last summer , the administration moved mr. bush in the direction of gradual liberalization a north atlantic treaty organization meeting that some exceptions to the cocom embargo of strategic goods would allow he when told he .
but more recently , openly feuded the pentagon and the commerce department over the extent to which exports of personal computers to the bloc should liberalize cocom .
that the west should be cautious about any further liberalization however , generally agree these agencies .
`` there be no evidence that have diminished the soviet program ( illegally ) western technology to acquire , '' said a state department spokesman .
warrants on shares of hong kong telecommunications ltd will issue it announced salomon brothers international ltd. , a british subsidiary of salomon inc. , .
a similar offer by salomon of warrants for shares of hongkong & shanghai banking corp closely follow the move .
will be priced the 50 million warrants at hk$ 1.25 each and a premium to the share price of about 26 % to carry are expected .
in trading on the stock exchange of hong kong , closed the shares wednesday at hk$ 4.80 each .
at this price , to rise above hk$ 6.05 for their warrants to profitably convert subscribers to salomon 's issue would have the shares .
while in the past warrants on their own shares , have issued hong kong companies is salomon 's warrants the first here to be issued by a third party .
`` the warrants will cover salomon '' by sufficient shares , or options to purchase shares , its entire position to cover buying .
is warrants for hong kong stocks attractive because an opportunity shares to buy without too great a risk taking give they foreign investors , wary of volatility in the colony 's stock market , said bankers .
the hong kong telecommunications warrants should be attractive to buyers in europe , added the bankers , because is the group one of a handful of blue-chip stocks on the hong kong market that international appeal have .
suit filed financial corp. of santa barbara against former stock speculator ivan f. boesky and drexel burnham lambert inc. , the thrift defrauded they by their relationship concealing it $ 284 million in high-yield , high-risk junk bonds to buy when persuading charging .
in a suit filed in federal court thursday , that declined a `` disproportionate number '' of the bonds purchased it in 1984 in value alleged the s&l .
the bonds , purchased financial corp. alleged the suit , after an agreement for a 51 % stake in the thrift to purchase vagabond hotels for about $ 34 million negotiated mr. boesky and drexel .
was controlled vagabond hotels by mr. boesky , who a prison term currently is serving for securities violations .
the suit had n't seen they and thus could n't comment said officials at drexel .
in addition to $ 33 million compensatory damages , $ 100 million in punitive damages seek the suit .
also named is ivan f. boesky corp. and northview corp. , the successor company to vagabonds hotels in the suit .
could n't be located northview officials .
the bonds to buy agreed it after it visited a representative of ivan f. boesky corp. in november 1983 and its financial condition could improve financial corp. by the bonds purchasing said said financial corp. .
shortly before the visit , had met mr. boesky and drexel representives with financial corp. officials and a letter of intent the 51 % stake in the company to acquire had signed .
however , was canceled the agreement in june 1984 .
the bonds purchased financial corp. in at least 70 different transactions in 1984 and since then $ 11 million in losses has realized on them , said the company .
an agreement in principle calling for its north american cement holdings to combine hofi north america inc. in a transaction that ideal 's minority shareholders will leave with 12.8 % of the combined company with ideal reached its directors said ideal basic industries inc. .
its 100 % stake in st. lawrence cement inc. and its 60 % stake in dundee cement co. combining with its 67 % stake in ideal previously proposed hofi , the north american holding company of swiss concern holderbank financiere glaris ltd. , .
but about 10 % of the combined company would have given hofi 's first offer ideal 's other shareholders .
that offer , rejected ideal 's directors although the merger proposal endorsed they said they .
under the agreement , 87.2 % of the combined company will own hofi .
about 39.2 % of the combined company will represent ideal 's current operations .
is the transaction subject to a definitive agreement and approval by ideal shareholders .
the transaction to complete early next year expect it said ideal .
while have slumped corn and soybean prices well below their drought-induced peaks of 1988 , stubbornly high remain wheat prices .
and be they likely that way to stay for months to come , say analysts .
for one thing , with more winter wheat even planting many farmers this year than last , is tight wheat supplies likely prices to support well into 1990 , say the analysts .
and if do n't fall soon rain across many of the great plains ' wheat-growing areas , supplies further squeezing could be reduced yields in the crop now being planted , .
prices also supporting is expectations that substantial buying orders will place the soviet union over the next few months .
by next may 31 , to drop to 443 million bushels is projected stocks of u.s. wheat to be carried over into the next season -- before is harvested the winter wheat now being planted -- .
was stocks 698 million bushels on may 31 of this year .
in response to dwindling domestic supplies , last month the number of acres can plant farmers in wheat for next year and still qualify for federal support payments would slightly increase the u.s. government said agriculture secretary clayton yeutter .
that production next year will boost the new plan by about 66 million bushels estimate the government .
production for next year now estimate it at just under 2.6 billion bushels , compared with this year 's estimated 2.04 billion and a drought-stunted 1.81 billion in 1988 .
but wo n't be felt the full effect on prices of the winter wheat now being planted until the second half of next year .
until then , is limited stocks likely prices to keep near the $ 4-a-bushel level , say analysts .
on the chicago board of trade friday , settled wheat for december delivery at $ 4.0675 a bushel , unchanged .
in theory at least , the wheat futures market susceptible to a supply-demand squeeze , could leave tight supplies next spring said daniel basse , a futures analyst with agresource co. in chicago .
havoc , can wreak such a situation as was shown by the emergency that developed in soybean futures trading this summer on the chicago board of trade .
in july , ferruzzi finanziaria s.p . a. futures positions equal to about 23 million bushels of soybeans to liquidate ordered the cbot .
that some members would n't be able enough soybeans to deliver to find and to default on their contractual obligation to the italian conglomerate , which requests its holdings to reduce had refused would have feared it said the exchange .
the soybean futures market to manipulate was trying it have denied ferruzzi .
the yield from this season 's winter wheat crop , to reduce is threatening unseasonably hot , dry weather across large portions of the great plains and in wheat-growing areas in washington and oregon said conrad leslie , a futures analyst and head of leslie analytical in chicago .
for example , in the oklahoma panhandle , is 40 % or more of the topsoil short of moisture .
climb that figure to about 47 % in wheat-growing portions of kansas , said he .
any clear indication of its wheat purchase plans , have n't given the soviet union but moscow sizable orders for u.s. wheat to place in the next few months , prices further supporting expect many analysts .
`` will increasingly pivot wheat prices off of soviet demand '' in coming weeks , predicted richard feltes , vice president , research , for refco inc. in chicago .
to see how long and how far will go the price decline that began friday will be watching orange juice traders .
thursday , after the close of trading , what would normally have been a bullish u.s. department of agriculture estimate of the 1989-90 florida orange crop late received the market .
was it near the low range of estimates , at 130 million 90-pound boxes , compared with 146.6 million boxes last season .
as expected , however , waited brazil for to come out the crop estimate and the export price of its juice concentrate then cut to about $ 1.34 a pound from around $ 1.55 .
whatever supportive effect might have had the u.s. report erased friday 's consequent selling of futures contracts and the november orange juice contract sent down as much as 6.55 cents a pound at one time .
settled it with a loss of 4.95 cents at $ 1.3210 a pound .
after a delay caused by drought at the start of its crop season , to arrive in the u.s. in large quantities is beginning brazilian juice , .
demand for its product , which to be in plentiful supply is going to stimulate want brazil .
said one analyst , to be aimed even more at europe , where have fallen consumption of brazilian juice appeared the price cut , .
be it a dollar-priced product , and it more expensive in europe , have made the strong dollar said the analyst .
have dropped significantly new york futures prices from more than $ 2 a pound at midyear .
barring a cold snap or other crop problems in the growing areas , is downward pressure on prices likely to continue into january , their peak , when reach harvesting and processing of oranges in florida said the analyst .
although look some analysts for profit-taking in the wake of friday 's leap in crude oil prices , to continue this week is generally expected last week 's rally .
`` to look for a stable crude market , at least in futures trading , would continue i '' said william hinton , an energy futures broker with stotler & co .
a week of steadily rising crude oil prices in both futures and spot markets capped friday .
on the new york mercantile exchange , finished up 42 cents on the day west texas intermediate crude for november delivery at $ 20.89 a barrel , .
on european markets , meanwhile , was up 35 to 75 cents a barrel spot prices of north sea crudes .
`` to go higher , still want this market '' said nauman barakat , a first vice president at shearson lehman hutton inc .
that $ 21.50 a barrel or more will reach the november contract on the new york mercantile exchange predicted he .
a lack of bearish developments as well as rumors of a possible tightening of supplies of some fuels and crudes generally cite analysts .
there also is recurring reports that difficulties is having the soviet union with its oil exports and that its production limit have about reached nigeria and as much as could sell it ca n't produce .
a tightening of near-term supplies , particularly of high-quality crudes such as those produced in the north sea and in nigeria foresee many traders .
if emerge a hostile predator for saatchi & saatchi co. , a management buy-out attempt , will lead co-founders charles and maurice saatchi said an official close to the company .
last week , had been approached it by one or more third parties interested in a possible restructuring said saatchi 's largest shareholder , southeastern asset management , .
and a management buy-out of the company , to lead had offered he but was rebuffed by charles saatchi said carl spielvogel , chief executive officer of saatchi 's big backer spielvogel bates advertising unit , .
a hostile bid would n't launch he said mr. spielvogel .
that `` if came up a bidder with a ludicrously high offer , a crazy offer which could n't beat it , knew saatchi no choice but it to recommend to shareholders would have it said the executive close to saatchi & saatchi .
but -lcb- otherwise -rcb- would undoubtedly come back it '' with an offer by management .
would be led any buy-out by the current board , is whose chairman maurice saatchi and to be charles saatchi is believed whose strategic guiding force said the executive .
is mr. spielvogel n't part of the board , nor are any of the other heads of saatchi 's big u.s.-based ad agencies .
any price , did n't name the executive but upward of $ 1.3 billion would fetch saatchi have said securities analysts .
speculation that the new chief executive officer was bringing in saatchi the company only to clean up financially so that a buy-back could lead the brothers denied the executive .
abounded that speculation friday as the appointment of the new chief executive , robert louis-dreyfus , who saatchi join and a member of its board become on jan. 1 analyzed industry executives .
a reputation as a savvy financial manager , have mr. louis-dreyfus , formerly chief executive of the pharmaceutical research firm ims international inc. , and will be charged with saatchi 's poor financial state largely repairing .
asked about the speculation that the way to pave for a buy-out by the brothers , have been hired mr. louis-dreyfus `` is that n't the reason have been brought in dreyfus replied the executive , .
the company to turn around was brought in he '' .
little affect on them will have the company 's management shakeup believe they separately , said several saatchi agency clients .
`` any impact on us , have n't had it nor it to , do expect we '' said a spokeswoman for miller brewing co. , a major client of backer spielvogel .
`` no problem with the announcement , have we because what change to bring about be going it do n't know we said john lampe , director of advertising at painewebber inc. , a saatchi & saatchi advertising client , : .
agencies to change because of a change in london is n't going we '' .
no effect saw they also said executives at backer spielvogel client avis inc. , as well as at saatchi client philips lighting co. , .
comment declined executives at prudential-bache securities inc. , a backer spielvogel client that its account , is reviewing .
that either a management buy-out and restructuring , or a buy-out of backer spielvogel alone , led by him to finance was prepared prudential-bache had said mr. spielvogel .
its $ 12 million to $ 15 million account awarded california 's glendale federal bank to the los angeles office of omnicom group 's bbdo agency .
was previously handled the account by davis , ball & colombatto advertising inc. , a los angeles agency .
its relationship with the boston office of hill , holliday , connors , cosmopulos have ended royal crown cola co. .
about $ 6 million had billed the account in 1988 , according to leading national advertisers .
as expected , not guilty pleaded young & rubicam inc. along with two senior executives and a former employee , in federal court in new haven , conn. , to conspiracy and racketeering charges .
that jamaican officials bribed they the jamaica tourist board ad account to win in 1981 have charged the government .
`` is just beginning extradition proceedings '' for the other two defendants in the case , eric anthony abrahams , former jamaican tourism minister , and jamaican businessman arnold foote jr said a spokesman for the u.s. attorney 's office .
a joint venture advertising agency to establish in south korea agreed the samsung group and bozell inc. .
will be based bozell cheil corp. , as will be called the new agency , in seoul and 70 % is owned by samsung and 30 % owned by bozell .
korea first advertising co. , that country 's largest agency already own samsung .
backer spielvogel bates and ogilvy group join bozell as u.s. agencies with interests in korean agencies .
a payment from a supplier and strong sales of certain data-storage products , citing jumped earnings and revenue in its second quarter ended sept. 24 said maxtor corp. .
rose net income to $ 4.8 million , or 23 cents a share , from year-earlier net of $ 1.1 million , or five cents a share said the maker of computer-data-storage products .
soared revenue to $ 117 million from $ 81.5 million .
was boosted its results by $ 2 million in payments received from a supplier , for a certain line of products that to sell anymore is n't going maxtor said maxtor .
a positive effect on future earnings and revenue may have effects from the line discontinuing said maxtor .
would n't elaborate a spokeswoman , but the discontinued product has never been a major source of revenue or profit said the company .
operationally , benefited maxtor from robust sales of products that data store for high-end personal computers and computer workstations .
in the fiscal first half , was net $ 7 million , or 34 cents a share , up from the year-earlier $ 3.1 million , or 15 cents a share .
rose revenue to $ 225.5 million from $ 161.8 million .
a director of this provider of advanced technology systems and services , the board increasing to eight members was elected robert g. walden , 62 years old , .
retired he as senior vice president , finance and administration , and chief financial officer of the company oct. 1 .
that part of its 10-k report filed it with the securities and exchange commission , but that its audited financial statements and related information do n't include the filing said southmark corp. .
operating under bankruptcy-law proceedings , the sec financial statements could n't provide it by the end of its first extension `` without unreasonable burden or expense '' told it said the real estate and thrift concern , .
asked the company for a 15-day extension sept. 30 , when was the financial reports due .
its 10k to amend as soon as is completed its audit financial results to provide plan it said southmark .
chairman of this processor of prescription claims , thomas w. field jr. , 55 , who resigned last month succeeding was named alan seelenfreund , 52 years old , .
is mr. seelenfreund executive vice president and chief financial officer of mckesson and will continue in those roles .
rex r. malson , 57 , executive vice president at mckesson , also named pcs as a director , the seat vacated by mr. field filling .
is messrs. malson and seelenfreund directors of mckesson , which an 86 % stake in pcs have .
that was a challenge by medchem to the validity of a u.s. patent held by pharmacia inc. `` without merit '' ruled a u.s. district court in boston said medchem products inc. .
that infringe medchem 's amvisc product line on the pharmacia patent had charged pharmacia , based in upsala , sweden , in a lawsuit against medchem .
is related the patent to hyaluronic acid , a rooster-comb extract used in eye surgery .
in its lawsuit , unspecified damages and a preliminary injunction medchem to block from the amvisc products selling is seeking pharmacia .
about a third of medchem 's sales and 10 % to 20 % of its earnings contribute the products said a medchem spokesman .
in the year ended aug. 31 , 1988 , $ 2.9 million , or 72 cents a share , earned medchem on sales of $ 17.4 million .
was issued the court 's ruling as part of a `` first-phase trial '' in the patent-infringement proceedings and only one of its defenses in the case concern said medchem .
`` all of its options '' is considering it in light of the decision , including a possible appeal said it .
that `` its other defenses against pharmacia 's lawsuit , including the claim that have n't infringed it on pharmacia 's patent to assert '' plan it added the medical-products company .
that a conference scheduled the court for next monday -- a date for proceedings on pharmacia 's motion for a preliminary injunction to set said medchem .
mixed third-quarter results , aided by favorable newsprint prices and hampered by flat or declining advertising linage , especially in the northeast is reporting newspaper publishers .
adding to unsteadiness in the industry , have been upset seasonal retail ad spending patterns in newspapers by shifts in ownership and general hardships within the retail industry .
in new york , have filed the bonwit teller and b. altman & co. department stores for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code , while is the r.h. macy & co. , bloomingdale 's and saks fifth avenue department-store chains for sale .
is also faced many papers throughout the country with a slowdown in classified-ad spending , a booming category for newspapers in recent years .
until recently , had bottomed out decreases in retail ad spending and in fact would increase in this year 's third and fourth quarters believed industry analysts .
is all bets off , say analysts , because of the shifting ownership of the retail chains .
`` weakness in linage , offset will help improved paper prices but the amount of ad linage usually run they , have affected the retailers ' problems '' said edward j. atorino , industry analyst for salomon brothers inc .
`` is retailers just in disarray . ''
for instance , an 11 % gain in net income , posted gannett co. as dropped total ad pages at usa today , but rose advertising revenue because of a higher circulation rate base and increased rates .
a 3 % increase in advertising and circulation revenue reported gannett 's 83 daily and 35 non-daily newspapers .
was total advertising linage `` modestly '' lower as increased classified-ad volume , while there was `` softer demand '' for retail and national ad linage , said john curley , gannett 's chief executive officer .
at usa today , 785 totaled down 9.2 % from the 1988 period , which was helped by increased ad spending from the summer olympics ad pages for the quarter , .
while 2,735 , a decrease of 4 % from last year , totaled usa today 's total paid ad pages for the year to date 8 % increased the paper 's ad revenue in the quarter and 13 % in the nine months .
in the nine months , 9.5 % rose gannett 's net to $ 270 million , or $ 1.68 a share , from $ 247 million , or $ 1.52 a share .
6 % gained revenue to $ 2.55 billion from $ 2.4 billion .
at dow jones & co. , 9.9 % fell third-quarter net income from the year-earlier period .
fell net to $ 28.8 million , or 29 cents a share , from $ 32 million , or 33 cents a share .
a one-time gain of $ 3.5 million , or four cents a share included the year-earlier period .
5.3 % gained revenue to $ 404.1 million from $ 383.8 million .
continued softness in financial advertising at the wall street journal and barron 's magazine reflected the drop in profit , in part , .
6.1 % fell ad linage at the journal in the third quarter .
a year-earlier third quarter net loss reversed affiliated publications inc. .
net of $ 8.5 million , or 12 cents a share , compared with a loss of $ 26.5 million , or 38 cents a share , reported the publisher of the boston globe for the third quarter in 1988 .
to be hurt by softness in ad volume at the boston newspaper continued earnings said william o. taylor , the parent 's chairman and chief executive officer , .
is being strongly affected third-quarter profit estimates for several companies by the price of newsprint , which in the last two years several price increases have had .
after prices 14 % to rise since 1986 to $ 650 a metric ton , caused a supply crunch is analysts encouraged , because a price increase do n't expect they for the rest of this year .
the stable newsprint prices will need companies with daily newspapers in the northeast damage from weak ad linage to ease .
that was times mirror co. 's earnings down for the third quarter , because of soft advertising levels at its long island newsday and hartford courant newspapers estimate he said mr. atorino at salomon brothers .
was likely offset trouble on the east coast by improved ad linage at the los angeles times , which this week a redesign also unveiled .
lower earnings to report for the third quarter because of continued weak advertising levels at its flagship new york times and deep discounting of newsprint at its affiliate , forest products group is expected new york times co. .
`` is holding up well , times co. 's regional daily newspapers but there is little sign that will improve things in the new york market , '' said alan kassan , an analyst with shearson lehman hutton .
improved earnings , to report is expected washington post co. largely because of increased cable revenue and publishing revenue helped by an improved retail market in the washington area .
according to analysts , was also helped profits by successful cost-cutting measures at newsweek .
heightened competition from rival time magazine and a relatively flat magazine advertising market have faced the news-weekly .
is faced knight-ridder inc. with continued uncertainty over the pending joint operating agreement between its detroit free press and gannett 's detroit news , and analysts that was earnings down in the third quarter have told .
however , point analysts to positive advertising spending at several of its major daily newspapers , such as the miami herald and san jose mercury news .
`` is coming back strong the miami market after a tough couple of years `` a hispanic edition when was starting up knight-ridder and was falling circulation , '' '' said bruce thorp , an analyst for provident national bank .
in a series of moves that union officials in the u.s. and canada , angered that the mid-1990s may not survive as many as five north american assembly plants as its excess vehicle-making capacity to cut struggle the corporation have signaled general motors corp. , .
in announcements to workers late last week , death notices for two full-sized van assembly plants , effectively signed gm and serious doubt cast on the futures of three u.s. car factories .
is gm under intense pressure factories that unprofitable became as skidded the giant auto maker 's u.s. market share during the past decade to close .
about 80 % of its north american vehicle capacity , currently using will run it at 100 % of capacity by 1992 have vowed the company , .
an aging assembly plant in lakewood , ga. , the eighth u.s. assembly facility to close since 1987 would make it just a month ago , announced gm .
the pace of its factory consolidation to be stepping up to get in shape for the 1990s now , appear gm .
is one reason mounting competition from new japanese car plants in the u.s. that more than one million vehicles a year is pouring out at costs lower than can match gm .
that tighter no-layoff provisions in the new big three national contract that will be negotiated next year want they have signaled united auto workers union officials is another .
their strategy capacity and the work force to reduce to get in place before begin those talks want gm officials .
that is coming gm 's moves at a time dissidents who is the union too passive in the face of gm layoffs charge to silence when is trying uaw leaders however , is the problem , .
against that backdrop , a statement issued uaw vice president stephen p. yokich , who head of the union 's gm department , recently became friday gm 's `` flagrant insensitivity '' toward union members blasting .
`` disarray '' and an `` inability or unwillingness consistent information , to provide '' showed the auto maker 's decision trickle out word of the latest shutdowns and product reassignments in separate communiques to the affected plants to let said mr. yokich .
workers told gm officials late last week of the following moves : will be consolidated production of full-sized vans into a single plant in flint , mich .
probably will be shut down two plants -- one in scarborough , ontario , and the other in lordstown , ohio -- after the end of 1991 mean that .
about 3,000 canadian assembly workers and about 2,500 workers in ohio will idle the shutdowns .
the impending scarborough shutdown used robert white , canadian auto workers union president , the u.s.-canada free trade agreement and its champion , prime minister brian mulroney to criticize .
but may benefit canadian auto workers from a separate gm move that three u.s. car plants and one in quebec affect .
being the next generation of the pontiac firebird and chevrolet camaro muscle cars to build is no longer considered their facilities was told workers at plants in van nuys , calif. , oklahoma city and pontiac , mich. , .
whether the new camaro-firebird can build profitably it at a plant in st. therese , quebec , is studying gm said company and union officials .
union officials in van nuys and oklahoma city uncertain about their futures left that announcement .
a product to build do n't have the van nuys plant , which about 3,000 workers , employ after 1993 .
plans working as a `` flex plant , '' which several different types of products could build on short notice demand to satisfy to continue to draw up was asked the facility said jerry shrieves , uaw local president , .
said at the oklahoma city plant , which about 6,000 workers the eight-year-old a-body mid-sized cars , building employ steve featherston , uaw local vice president , lined up , no new product have the plant and `` when will die the a-body cars know none of us '' .
plans a-body cars building into the mid-1990s to keep have gm believe he said he .
at pontiac , uaw hopes that the shuttered assembly plant that the plastic-bodied , two-seater pontiac fiero model last built would reopen gm to erase however , appear the camaro-firebird decision .
was viewed the fiero plant as a model of union-management cooperation at gm before the company the factory to close last year forced slow sales of the fiero .
a beating have taken politically union officials as a result .
the fiero plant have used dissident uaw members as a symbol of labor-management cooperation 's failure .
an obstacle to its proposed acquisition of connaught biosciences inc. for 942 million canadian dollars ( us$ 801.6 million ) raised the canadian government said institut merieux s.a. of france .
it that was he n't convinced that is the purchase likely to be of `` net benefit '' to canada told the government 's minister of industry , science and technology said merieux .
that that standard meet big foreign takeovers require canadian investment rules .
30 days in which information its takeover plan to further support to submit gave the government it said the french company .
is both merieux and connaught biotechnology research and vaccine manufacturing concerns .
was the government 's action unusual .
the first time in its four-year history an adverse net-benefit decision about the acquisition of a publicly traded company that have made the agency marked it said alan nymark , executive vice president of investment canada , which foreign takeovers , oversee .
the same conclusions about some attempts closely held to buy concerns , have reached it but those acquisitions to proceed eventually allowed said he .
`` is this n't a change in government policy ; have been used before , this provision '' said jodi redmond , press secretary for harvie andre , canada 's minister of industry , science and technology .
the ruling issued mr. andre based on a recommendation by investment canada .
had n't been informed they of specific areas of concern by either the government or investment canada , said spokesmen for merieux and connaught but more information to have early this week hope they added .
to comment on the reasons for the government decision declined investment canada .
was the government 's ruling n't unexpected said viren mehta , a partner with mehta & isaly , a new york-based pharmaceutical industry research firm , .
`` a very politicized deal , concerning canada 's only large , world-class bio-research or pharmaceutical company , have become this '' said mr. mehta .
the move that the transaction to go ahead as planned could allow could be an out-of-court settlement of connaught 's dispute with the university of toronto said mr. mehta .
the acquisition of connaught by foreign interests , to block is seeking the university concerns about the amount of research that would be done in canada citing .
a settlement proposal made by connaught is considering the university .
while its contents , will disclose neither side it more specific guarantees on research and development spending levels in canada than offered merieux to investment canada to contain expect mr. mehta .
the door open for other bidders , such as switzerland 's ciba-geigy and chiron corp. of emeryville , calif leave the government ruling believe some analysts , such as murray grossner of toronto-based richardson greenshields inc. , .
could n't be reached officials for the two concerns , which c$ 30 a share is bidding for connaught , for comment .
51 % of merieux hold french state-owned rhone-poulenc s.a. .
plans for a preferred-stock swap canceled it but payment of dividends on the stock , may resume said weatherford international inc. and that about 10 million common shares to publicly offer expect it added .
an undetermined number of common shares to offer in exchange for the 585,000 shares of its preferred stock outstanding planned it said the company .
was never established the exchange ratio .
led market conditions to the cancellation of the planned exchange said weatherford .
that in january 1990 , payments of dividends on the preferred stock may resume it said however , the energy-services concern , .
its preferred-dividend payment suspended weatherford in october 1985 and any plans to catch up on dividends in arrears about $ 6 million , have n't it but will do so some time in the future said .
filed it with the securities and exchange commission for the proposed offering of 10 million shares of common stock , to be offered in november expected additionally , said the company .
an option as much as an additional 1.5 million shares to buy over-allotments to cover was granted salomon brothers inc. and howard , weil , labouisse , friedrichs inc. , underwriters for the offering , said the company .
bank debt to eliminate and restructure will be used proceeds .
approximately 11.1 million common shares outstanding currently have weatherford .
to have moved ahead briskly in the third quarter , as fared especially well companies with newer , big-selling prescription drugs is believed earnings for most of the nation 's major pharmaceutical makers .
that all benefited merck & co. , eli lilly & co. , warner-lambert co. and the squibb corp. unit of bristol-myers squibb co. from strong sales of relatively new , higher-priced medicines that wide profit margins provide said analysts .
was attributed less robust earnings at pfizer inc. and upjohn co. to those companies ' older products , stiffening competition from generic drugs and other medicines face many of which .
that over the past few years their slow-growing businesses have shed most drug makers and other cost savings , such as manufacturing plants and administrative staffs consolidating instituted said joseph riccardo , an analyst with bear , stearns & co. , .
as a result , `` significant impact , is having major new products even on a company with very large revenues , '' said mr. riccardo .
between 11 % and 14 % to have climbed is estimated profit for the dozen or so big drug makers , as a group , said analysts .
while be that not spectacular , that `` especially good as compared to other companies will look the rate of growth if turn downward the economy '' said neil sweig , an analyst with prudential bache , .
that rose merck 's profit for the quarter by about 22 % , propelled by sales of its line-up of fast-growing prescription drugs , including its anti-cholesterol drug , mevacor ; a high blood pressure medicine , vasotec ; primaxin , an antibiotic , and pepcid , an anti-ulcer medication estimated mr. sweig .
climbed profit though even was reduced merck 's sales by `` one to three percentage points '' as a result of the strong dollar , said mr. sweig .
in the third quarter of 1988 , $ 311.8 million , or 79 cents a share earned merck .
in rahway , n.j. , earnings projections do n't make the company said a merck spokesman .
that about 20 % , jumped lilly 's earnings for the quarter largely because of the performance of its new anti-depressant prozac estimated he said mr. sweig .
sales of about $ 300 million to generate this year is expected the drug , introduced last year , .
`` to be a real blockbuster , be turning out it '' said mr. sweig .
in last year 's third quarter , $ 171.4 million , or $ 1.20 a share earned lilly .
in indianapolis , comment declined lilly .
warner-lambert 's profit also to increase by more than 20 % from $ 87.7 million , or $ 1.25 a share , reported it in the like period last year expected they said several analysts .
is praised the company by analysts for its costs sharply lowering in recent years and numerous companies with low profit margins shedding .
said analysts , sharp-rising sales from its cholesterol drug , lopid , earnings growth to power allowed the company 's lean operation , .
to be about $ 300 million this year , up from $ 190 million in 1988 is expected lopid sales .
in morris plains , n.j. , is the analysts ' projections `` in the ballpark '' said a spokesman for the company .
to be about 18 % above the $ 123 million , or $ 1.25 a share , earned it in the third quarter of 1988 , estimated by analysts was squibb 's profit , the result of especially strong sales of its capoten drug for high blood pressure and other heart disease treating .
was officially merged the company with bristol-myers co. earlier this month .
to comment declined bristol-myers .
that is schering-plough corp. 's expected profit rise of about 18 % to 20 % , and bristol-meyers 's expected profit increase of about 13 % because `` largely is really managed well those companies '' said mr. riccardo of bear stearns .
$ 94.4 million , or 84 cents a share , earned scheringplough while $ 232.3 million , or 81 cents a share , earned bristol-myers in the like period a year earlier .
in madison , n.j. , `` no problems '' with the average estimate by a analysts that rose third-quarter earnings per share by about 19 % , to $ 1 have the company said a spokesman for schering-plough .
the 20 % increase in full-year earnings per share , to achieve as projected it in the spring , expect the company said the spokesman .
continued pfizer 's recent string of lackluster quarterly performances , as to decline by about 5 % was expected earnings in the quarter meanwhile , said analysts .
have shrunk sales of pfizer 's important drugs , feldene for arthritis , treating and procardia , a heart medicine , because of increased competition .
`` pfizer hurt too , the ( strong ) dollar a lot , '' said mr. sweig .
in the third quarter last year , $ 216.8 million , or $ 1.29 a share earned pfizer .
in new york , comment declined the company .
upjohn 's profit to be flat or rise by only about 2 % to 4 % as compared with $ 89.6 million , or 49 cents a share , earned a year ago it expected they said analysts .
is upjohn 's biggest-selling drugs xanax , a tranquilizer , and halcion , a sedative .
have been hurt sales of both drugs by new state laws the prescriptions of certain tranquilizing medicines restricting and adverse publicity about the excessive use of the drugs .
also , is selling well the company 's hair-growing drug , rogaine , -- at about $ 125 million for the year , but have been reduced the company 's profit from the drug by upjohn 's expensive print and television campaigns for advertising , said analysts .
in kalamazoo , mich. , comment declined upjohn .
amid a crowd of crashing stocks , fell particularly hard relational technology inc. 's stock friday , 23 % dropping because was compounded its problems by disclosure of an unexpected loss for its fiscal first quarter .
a $ 2 million net loss for the fiscal first quarter ended sept. 30 expect it said the database software company .
a small profit for the period had been expecting analysts said it .
to be `` up modestly '' from the $ 26.5 million reported a year ago is expected revenue .
net income of $ 1.5 million , or 12 cents a share , in the year-earlier period reported relational technology .
`` while strong growth , showed our international operations was our domestic business substantially below expectations , '' said paul newton , president and chief executive officer .
said a spokesman is the company 's first quarter historically soft , and slower sales is experiencing computer companies in general .
the resignation of thomas wilson , vice president of corporate sales , accepted he and that have been reassigned his marketing responsibilities said mr. newton .
was n't related mr. wilson 's resignation to the sales shortfall said the company .
public went relational technology in may 1988 at $ 14 a share .
$ 1.875 a share fell it friday , to $ 6.25 , a new low , in over-the-counter trading .
was its high for the past year $ 16.375 a share .
in the previous quarter , $ 4.5 million , or 37 cents a share , earned the company on sales of $ 47.2 million .
a wonderful botanical garden , a great zoo , its own charming little italy ( on arthur avenue ) and , of course , the yankees have the bronx .
having been subjected to news footage of the devastated south bronx , the way tom wolfe 's sherman mccoy did in `` bonfire of the vanities '' however , look most people , at the borough -- as a wrong turn into hell .
but is laura cunningham 's bronx , her childhood bronx of the '50s , something else altogether .
in a lovely , novelistic memoir , `` sleeping arrangements '' ( knopf , 195 pages , $ 18.95 ) , an exotic playground , peopled mainly by jewish eccentrics and the occasional catholic ( real oddballs like her sexpot friend , the hell-kitten diana , age five ) remember she .
a vivid and dramatically outsized sense of recall have ms. cunningham , a novelist and playwright , .
her `` bronx of the emotions , a place where is only relieved the flats of mediocrity by steep descents into hysteria '' transform she into the `` babylonian bronx , '' a world simmering with sex and death and intrigue .
in the babylonian bronx , lived jewish working-class people in drab , soviet-style buildings `` glamorized '' with names like anamor towers ( after owners anna and morris snezak ) , was decorated whose lobbies and hallways with murals of ancient syrians and greeks , friezes of pompeii .
for ms. cunningham the discrepancy living in the anamor towers as a little girl felt she : `` ... '' outwardly ordinary , inwardly ornate , all inspiration owing to heathen cultures matched the architectural discombobulation .
sharp-witted and funny but never mean , be she a memorialist a bit like truman capote , if he 'd been jewish and female and less bitchy .
really was little lily , as herself call ms. cunningham in the book , n't ordinary .
by her mother , rosie , whom remember she as a loving liar , who history realigned to explain why did n't live lily 's father with them was raised she , for the first eight years , .
this man , who may or may not have known about his child , reinvented rosie as a war hero for lily 's benefit .
young died rosie and her have remembered lily as a romantic figure , who did n't interfere much with her child 's education on the streets .
tame seem the games played bronx children ( kids holding down and them , stripping for example ) by today 's crack standards , but all sound it like a great adventure make ms. cunningham .
`` without official knowledge of sex or death , flirted we with both , '' write she .
families analyzed she by their sleeping arrangements .
slept her friend susan , her reminding was she unwanted , kept whose parents on a narrow bed wedged into her parents ' bedroom , as though was she a temporary visitor .
was her friend diana 's father a professional thief ; any bedrooms to have at all did n't seem they .
so obsessed with where slept people and how maybe became lily because shifting kept her own arrangements .
when died rosie , moved in her uncles -- and the sleeping and other household arrangements make her let .
the apartment orange , pink and white , painted they according to her instructions .
with loving detail her uncle gabe , an orthodox jew and song lyricist ( who river rhymed with liver in a love song ) ; and uncle len , a mysterious part-time investigator who looked like lincoln and a change of clothing carried in a manila envelope , like an `` undercover president on a good-will mission '' recall she .
came honestly they by their strangeness .
the heads of disliked relatives excised lily 's grandmother , no cookie baker , from the family album , and her perennial work-in-progress , `` philosophy for women '' lugged around .
some momentum lose the book toward the end , more preoccupied with boys dating and less with her delightfully weird family when become lily .
also figure the bronx in bruce jay friedman 's latest novel , which flash back to the new york of the '50s .
but cramped and static feel both the past and present worlds of `` the current climate '' ( atlantic monthly press , 200 pages , $ 18.95 ) .
for his sixth novel , the protagonist of his 1972 work , `` about harry towns '' to resuscitate tried mr. friedman .
is harry now a 57-year-old writer , quaintly out-of-synch seem whose continuing flirtation with drugs and marginal types in hollywood and new york .
the `` old '' days of the early '70s , a psychiatrist when would take people like his friend travis on a date what was doing wrong travis to analyze fondly remember harry .
`` an l.a. solution , '' explain mr. friedman .
line by line mr. friedman 's weary cynicism can be amusing , especially when be riffing he on the hollywood social scheme -- the way each other the desperate ones who it merely almost made immediately canceling size up , people .
all that have avoided harry by living in a long island suburb with his wife , who 's so addicted to soap operas and mystery novels to notice when disappear her husband for drug-seeking forays into manhattan barely seem she .
but too many lines do n't take it harry to figure out .
be he a bore .
$ 1.5 million to pay as part of an accord with the environmental protection agency an environmental cleanup of a defunct smelter formerly operated the company in idaho regarding agreed it said gulf resources & chemical corp. .
in 1984 gulf resources , which was a part-owner of the smelter , that was it potentially liable for cleanup costs at the site sharing under the federal superfund program notified the epa .
is the 21-square-mile area contaminated with lead , zinc and other metals .
earlier this year a reorganization plan that it a unit of a bermuda concern , it potentially exempting from liability for the smelter 's cleanup costs would make proposed gulf resources .
that as part of its agreement with the epa , `` certain voluntary undertakings made it with respect to intercorporate transactions entered into after the reorganization '' said the company .
that was previously provided $ 1 million of the payment for in its financial statements and that will be recognized $ 500,000 in its 1989 third-quarter statement said the company , which a statement on the agreement issued late friday , .
is the agreement and consent decree subject to court approval , said the company .
that `` equitable contribution to recover from others for both the amount of the settlement and any other liabilities may incur it under the superfund law will seek it '' added gulf resources .
under the agreement , 45 days ' advance written notice must give gulf the u.s. government before any dividends issuing on common stock .
can not fall the company 's net worth below $ 185 million after is issued the dividends .
`` effective the date of gulf 's reorganization , which will occur sometime in early 1990 , anticipate we only become the terms of that agreement '' said lawrence r. mehl , gulf 's general counsel .
in addition , 20 days ' advance written notice of any loans $ 50 million exceeding that is made to the bermuda-based holding company must give gulf the government .
a special meeting for shareholders to hold in early 1990 to vote on its proposed reorganization expect it separately , said the company .
that do n't head the market into a bottomless free fall , assuming a harbinger of good news -- as a sign that may be abating the leveraged buy-out and takeover frenzy of recent years could prove friday 's action think some executives .
`` is this a reaction to artificial lbo valuations , rather than to any fundamentals , '' said john young , chairman of hewlett-packard co. , $ 3.125 dropped whose shares to $ 48.125 .
`` if rid of a lot of that nonsense , get we it will be a big plus . ''
were a few of the executives here for the fall meeting of the business council , a group that national issues , to discuss meet only too happy their criticism to personalize .
`` something would do the government about leveraged buy-outs , something do about takeovers , something do about donald trump , wish people '' said rand araskog , chairman of itt corp. , $ 3.375 dropped whose stock .
where 's the guy who ` is enough enough ' can say : '' ?
was the executives remarkably unperturbed by the plunge though billions of dollars even lopped it off the value of their companies -- and millions off their personal fortunes .
`` to worry about one day 's decline , be not going i '' said kenneth olsen , digital equipment corp. president , who was leisurely strolling through the bright orange and yellow leaves of the mountains here after $ 5.75 plunged his company 's shares to close at $ 86.50 .
`` anybody calling did n't bother i ; i did n't even turn on tv '' .
`` there has n't been any fundamental change in the economy , '' added john smale , whose an $ 8.75 slide took procter & gamble co. to close at $ 120.75 .
`` some comfort that this wo n't be a problem give the fact that happened two years ago this and there was a recovery people '' .
of course , the setbacks of stock speculators and takeover artists to applaud often tend established corporate managements .
indeed , was one chief executive who was downright delighted by friday 's events robert crandall , chairman of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines and the target of a takeover offer by mr. trump .
whether being trumped by the new york real estate magnate , avoid him could help friday 's action asked smiled broadly mr. crandall and said : `` no comment '' .
on friday morning , before the market 's sell-off , a report would grow the economy at roughly an inflation-adjusted 2 % annual rate , through next year , then accelerate anew in 1991 predicting issued the business leaders .
periods of decline in the nation 's output over the next two years , projected of the 19 economists who worked on the business council forecast , only two and `` in both instances is the declines too modest the phrase recession , to warrant '' said lewis preston , chairman of j.p. morgan & co. and vice chairman of the business council .
the city 's retail real estate market is also affecting the real estate slump that the price of new york office space and housing be pushing down .
in manhattan , vacant sit once-desirable store sites and newly constructed space has been slow to fill .
is tenants reluctant leases to sign because of uncertainty about the local economy , turmoil in their own industries and a belief that bottom have not yet hit rents say retail real estate brokers .
`` there is an unbelievable amount of space available , '' say faith consolo , senior vice president at garrick-aug associates store leasing inc .
there is up from a more typical range of 1,200 to 1,500 about 2,000 stores for rent , .
`` retailers , further confuse this '' say she .
`` wonder they a lease should sign they if is still coming down prices ?
in addition , say ms. consolo , rents that are about one-quarter lower than landlords ' initial asking price to pay usually can negotiate tenants .
and , in some neighborhoods , a plateau have merely hit rents .
but on average , 10 % to 15 % have dropped manhattan retail rents in the past six months alone , say experts .
a more subtle decline in the prior six months , after had run up rapidly manhattan rents since 1986 follow that .
retailing have affected the same factors demand for office space limiting .
`` as contract businesses or depart , shrink the number of employees who retail services might use , '' say edward a. friedman , senior vice president of helmsley spear inc .
the market have further deflated financial problems electronics , fur and furniture companies -- key categories in the local retail economy -- plaguing say he .
hardest hit are call he what `` secondary '' sites that neighborhood residents primarily serve .
in these locations , say mr. friedman , `` is retailers increasingly cautious about expanding and steady have remained rents or in some cases have declined . ''
the problem exacerbate weakness in the restaurant industry , which retail space vacant , is leaving for landlords .
is it also no comfort to landlords and small new york retailers when is the future of larger department stores , which retail neighborhoods , anchor in doubt .
is mired hooker corp. , parent of bonwit teller and b. altman 's , in bankruptcy proceedings and is bloomingdale 's for sale by its owner , campeau corp .
surprising may seem the trend toward lower rents given that the loss of favorite local businesses to high rents is bemoaning some communities in new york .
but , despite the recent softening , for many of these retailers there 's still been too big a jump from the rental rates of the late 1970s , when was signed their leases .
cheap come manhattan certainly , do n't mean the recent drop in prices .
still run new york retail rents well above the going rate in other u.s. cities .
rents of up to $ 500 a square foot , can command madison and fifth avenues and east 57th street and is $ 250 not uncommon .
rents of about $ 100 a square foot , offer the thriving 34th street area as do up-and-coming locations along lower fifth avenue .
by contrast , $ 100 a square foot rarely top rentals in the best retail locations in boston , san francisco and chicago .
and about $ 125 a square foot generally do n't exceed rents on beverly hills ' rodeo drive .
trading will begin two securities this week said the new york stock exchange .
trading with the symbol pcp will begin precision castparts corp. , portland , ore. , .
investment castings make it and over-the-counter has traded .
american depositary shares , will list royal bank of scotland group plc , an edinburgh , scotland , financial services company , preferred shares , representing with the symbol rbspr .
to trade on the international stock exchange , london will continue it .
shares of two companies listed the american stock exchange .
trading with the symbol aim started aim telephones inc. , a parsippany , n.j. , telecommunications equipment supply company , .
over-the-counter had traded it .
trading with the symbol cob began columbia laboratories inc. , miami , .
over-the-counter had traded the pharmaceuticals maker .
shares of one company listed the national market system of the nasdaq over-the-counter market .
was listed employee benefit plans inc. , a minneapolis health-care services company , with the symbol ebpi .
the start of his 34th year on the supreme court when mark justice william brennan today , will differ sharply the occasion from previous anniversaries of his tenure .
for the first time , his influence find the 83-year-old justice almost exclusively in dissent , rather than as a force in the high court 's majority .
true , hold as well , this role reversal for his three liberal and moderate allies , justices thurgood marshall , harry blackmun and john stevens .
but is these four players , three of them in their 80s , ready a different role to assume after 88 years , collectively , of service on the high court ?
that are the four prepared this new role , and the frustrations that go with it , to accept but in different ways is every indication .
philosophical about it appear justices brennan and stevens ; fighting mad appear justices marshall and blackmun .
is the four justices no newcomers to dissent , forces often joining in the past decade the court 's conservative drift to criticize .
but in years past , the trend always , have bucked they and have been able a fifth vote to pick up a number of major victories in civil rights and liberties cases to eke out .
now , however , as to solidify , continue the court 's new five-member conservative majority is victories for the liberals rare .
is the change most dramatic for justice brennan , the last survivor of the mid-1960s liberal majority under chief justice earl warren .
in the seven supreme court terms from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1967 , the height of the warren court 's power , only 25 dissenting votes cast justice brennan in 555 cases decided by the court .
last term alone 52 dissenting votes cast he in 133 decisions , with the contentious flag-burning ruling as his only big victory .
but his new role , foresaw justice brennan the importance of dissents strongly defending in a 1985 speech .
`` each time an issue , revisit the court the fundamental questions to reconsider and the result , to rethink will be forced the justices by a dissent '' said he .
in recent months that when was he on the winning side in the 1960s , that might turn the tables in the future knew he moreover , have said he .
that how felt justice john harlan , now know he have said he a reference to the late conservative justice who was the most frequent dissenter from the warren court 's opinions .
was he `` depressed '' about the court 's direction last spring , but is feisty about his role and determined to speak out against the court 's cutbacks in civil rights say associates of 81-year-old justice marshall .
`` it could sweep we under the rug and it , hide but it , to do be not going i '' said he in a speech last month .
like justice brennan , dissents highly important for the future , consider he , a point legal scholars have n't escaped that .
there is a `` generation-skipping '' flavor to current dissents say harvard law school professor laurence tribe .
say he , to be writing for the short-term , that might change soon the court 's direction suggesting appeared the dissenters in the warren court , .
`` is speaking brennan and marshall in their dissents to a more distant future , '' say he .
feisty about his new role also seem justice blackmun , who 81 will turn next month , .
some defeats especially attempts the right to abortion first recognized in his 1973 opinion , roe vs. wade to curtail take more personally than his colleagues , he say associates .
was he no more discouraged about the court than in recent years said friends and associates who justice blackmun saw during the summer .
and improved his outlook after successful cataract surgery in august .
but showed his level of frustration in a recent , impassioned speech to a group of hundreds of lawyers in chicago .
his remarks concluded he by the late martin luther king 's famous `` a dream have i '' speech from the 1963 march on washington quoting emotionally and at some length , , according to those present , .
is justice stevens , 69 , probably the most philosophical of the dissenters about his role , in part because he may be the least liberal of the four , but also because the intellectual challenge of arguing with the majority enjoy more than the others he .
if is the role is assuming these four dissenters a familiar one in modern supreme court history , also differ it in an important way from recent history , say court watchers .
`` a legal legacy that inherited they , was often defending the dissenters of the warren court '' say prof. a.e. dick howard of the university of virginia law school , `` but a legacy that created they is defending the dissenters today .
the deposits of four savings-and-loan institutions , sold the government in its first wave of sales of big , sick thrifts , but the sale of a fifth prevented low bids .
was sold the four s&ls to large banks , as was the case with most of the 28 previous transactions initiated by the resolution trust corp. since was created two months ago it in the s&l bailout legislation .
were sold two of the four big thrifts to ncnb corp. , charlotte , n.c. , which its markets , have aggressively expanded particularly in texas and florida .
another thrift , bought a canadian bank in the first rtc transaction with a foreign bank .
under these deals , just the deposits and the healthy assets sell the rtc .
the bulk of bad assets , mostly real estate , leave these `` clean-bank '' transactions with the government , to be sold later .
in these four , for instance , is stuck the rtc with $ 4.51 billion in bad assets .
premiums ranging from 1.5 % to 3.7 % paid acquirers for the deposits and branch systems , roughly in line with what were expecting analysts .
will also be locked the buyers into deposit rates for just two weeks , as has been the case with previous deals .
after that , the rates paid by the former thrifts may repudiate the buyers .
but be it uncertain whether those steps will take these institutions .
ncnb , for example , has been one of the highest rate payers in the texas market , and in florida , is rates especially sensitive in retirement communities .
five thrifts had previously targeted the rtc for quick sales in order cash to spend by certain budgetary deadlines , but the tough chore the agency facing illustrate the delays .
`` is these thrifts beached whales , '' said bert ely , an industry consultant based in alexandria , va .
for example , the rtc the thrift selling off branch-by-branch , instead of as a whole institution to consider have forced the delay in people 's heritage savings , salina , kan. , with $ 1.7 billion in assets , selling .
its foray into the florida and texas markets continued ncnb .
university federal savings association , houston , which assets of $ 2.8 billion had will acquire ncnb .
a premium of $ 129 million will pay ncnb texas national bank the rtc for $ 3.5 billion in deposits .
as a measure of the depths to which have sunk the texas real estate market , $ 3.8 billion will pay the rtc to ncnb $ 750 million of bad assets to take .
freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , which total assets of $ 900 million had also acquired ncnb .
a premium of $ 40.4 million will pay ncnb the rtc for $ 1.1 billion in deposits .
$ 266 million of freedom 's assets will also acquire ncnb from the rtc , which $ 875 million in assistance will require .
hill financial savings association , red hill , pa. , which $ 2.3 billion in assets had will acquire meridian bancorp inc. , reading , pa. , .
a premium of $ 30.5 million will pay meridian $ 2 billion in deposits to assume .
$ 845 million of the thrift 's assets , will also purchase it with $ 1.9 billion in rtc assistance .
in the first rtc transaction with a foreign buyer , pacific savings bank , costa mesa , calif. , which $ 949 million in assets had will acquire royal trustco ltd. , toronto , .
$ 25 million will pay royal trustco the rtc $ 989 million in deposits to assume .
$ 473 million in assets , will also purchase it and $ 550 million in assistance receive from the rtc .
was recently filed the following issues with the securities and exchange commission :
pacificare health systems inc. , proposed offering of 1.5 million common shares , of which will be offered 700,000 shares by pacificare and 800,000 shares by unihealth america inc . ( pacificare 's 71 % ) , via dillon , read & co. inc. , goldman , sachs & co. and dean witter reynolds inc .
in a move the costs of new subscribers , wooing to reduce its circulation guarantee to advertisers is lowering time magazine , for the second consecutive year , its subscription rates increasing and cutting back on merchandise giveaways .
in an announcement to its staff last week , `` its use of electronic giveaways such as telephones in television subscription drives will dramatically de-emphasize time '' ; the circulation advertisers guarantee it cut by 300,000 , to four million ; and the cost of its annual subscription rate increase by about $ 4 to $ 55 said executives at time warner inc. 's weekly magazine .
in a related development , for the fourth year in a row , its advertising rates wo n't increase it in 1990 said the news-weekly , ; about $ 120,000 cost a full , four-color page in the magazine .
however , because is being lowered the guaranteed circulation base , ad rates will be effectively 7.5 % higher per subscriber , according to richard heinemann , time associate publisher .
the course of some other mass-circulation magazines in recent years the publishing myth that artificially high , and expensive , circulations maintaining is the way advertisers to draw have challenged that is following time .
in recent years , their massive circulation rate bases have cut reader 's digest , new york times co. 's mccall 's , and most recently news corp. 's tv guide , marginal circulation to eliminate and rates for advertisers hold down .
accepted forms of new subscribers attracting have become deep discounts in subscriptions and offers of free clock radios and watches in the hyper-competitive world of magazine news-weeklies .
but as part of the more cost-conscious time warner , itself to wean away from expensive gimmicks want time , .
a news magazine selling with a clock radio is tacky besides , think time executives .
`` the wrong image , just give giveaways people '' said mr. heinemann .
`` the focus take that perception off the magazine '' .
the circulation cut predictably paint time magazine executives as a show of strength and actually a benefit to advertisers .
`` the readers who are only casually related to the magazine and it , do n't really read screening out is what are doing we '' said mr. heinemann .
`` quality and involvement to create is trying we '' .
the same explanation however , used time executives in october 1988 its guaranteed circulation when cut the magazine from 4.6 million to 4.3 million .
and according to audit bureau of circulations , 7.3 % dropped time 's paid circulation , to 4,393,237 in the six months ended june 30 , 1989 .
still , is being received well , once again time 's move .
`` be it terrific for more , will be paying the reader to know advertisers '' said michael drexler , national media director at bozell inc. ad agency .
`` is a few drops in circulation of no consequence .
be it not a show of weakness ; the quality of circulation is improving they while their profits insuring . ''
a new focus in the magazine industry : a magazine 's net revenue per subscriber , or the actual revenue from subscribers after have been stripped away discounts and the cost of premiums represent the changes said mr. heinemann .
`` how much is getting we from each reader , is the question '' said mr. heinemann .
is time 's rivals news-weeklies , washington post co. 's newsweek and u.s. news & world report , less reliant on electronic giveaways , and in recent years their circulation rate bases have been increasing both .
their ad rates and circulation levels for 1990 to announce within a month is expected both magazines .
when broke two weeks ago , the news of an attempted coup in panama the state department called sen. christopher dodd for a briefing .
' `` cnn , follow said they , ` '' reporters told he .
how far have come ted turner 's cable news network since its birth nine years ago , the laughingstock of television news when was considered it show that .
is it bigger , faster and more profitable than the news divisions of any of the three major broadcast networks .
elite audiences draw its niche as the `` network of record '' during major crises around the world .
but for all its success , a plateau have hit cnn .
although viewership soars when break big news , ebb it during periods of calm .
that stale may be getting the network 's punchy but repetitive news format and wo n't keep coming back viewers as multiply the alternatives for news and information on cable-tv worry cnn executives .
`` is just the fact be we on 24 hours no longer bulletin , '' say ed turner , cnn 's executive vice president , news gathering ( and no relation to ted turner ) .
itself to reposition as a primary channel , or what a `` top of mind '' network call people in the television industry so is trying cnn , a unit of atlanta-based turner broadcasting system inc. , .
tonight , the effort , to kick off its first prime-time newscast in years , an hourlong show at 6 p.m . eastern time to air head-to-head against the network newscasts will premiere cnn .
will be co-anchored the show by bernard shaw and catherine crier , a 34-year-old former texas judge and campus beauty queen who a job in television or journalism have never held .
is the new show perhaps the boldest in a number of steps audience loyalty to build by shifting away from its current format toward more full-length `` signature '' programming with recognizable stars is taking the network .
itself , to distinguish international coverage is also expanding cnn and a second global-news program adding .
higher salaries is paying it -- after years of scrimping -- experienced staffers to lure and keep .
and is embarking it on an expensive gamble major stories to break with a large investigative-reporting team .
`` a point of reference to become at ordinary dinner tables , to get beyond the opinion leaders who us use as a point of reference is the next stage '' says jon petrovich , executive vice president of headline news , cnn 's sister network .
like other consumer products , images in peoples ' minds that are n't easy to change develop networks , .
money that cnn has been reluctant to spend also take it programs to make and talent that to see will tune in specially viewers hire .
and the cable-tv operators -- cnn 's distributors and part owners -- like things just the way is they .
is aimed the repositioning bid at cnn 's unsteady viewership -- and what may happen to it as more competitive grows the cable-tv news market .
stronger competition from financial news network inc. and general electric co. 's consumer news and business channel , are both of which likely more general news to pursue in the future already , is facing cnn .
in addition , more local and regional news programs produced by local broadcast stations is airing many cable-tv systems themselves .
its viewers ' habits to change want cnn .
is its watchers , on the whole , a disloyal group of channel-zapping `` grazers '' and news junkies , who an average of just 26 minutes a day cnn , watching spend according to audience research .
be that less than one-third the time the major broadcast networks that watch viewers .
it could put the brief attention cnn give viewers at a disadvantage as more important to cable-tv channels become ratings data , and advertising , .
have been molded cnn 's viewer habits by its format .
to serve as a tv wire service have been its strategy in the past .
as place took events live so could go quicker and longer than other networks it focused it on building up its news bureaus around the world , .
its daily schedule filled it with newscasts `` daybreak , '' `` daywatch , '' `` newsday , '' and `` newsnight , '' called but little varied the shows in content , personality or look .
now , is the push on for more-distinctive shows .
`` more programs with an individual identity , to create is our goal '' say paul amos , cnn executive vice president for programming .
a world-affairs show in the morning accordingly , is adding cnn because is its global-news hour in the afternoon among its most `` differentiated '' programs in viewers ' minds , show surveys say mr. amos .
and other original programs , similar to its `` larry king live '' and `` crossfire '' talk shows , which will keep tuned in people hope executives is exploring it .
then there be `` the world today , '' the prime-time newscast mr. shaw and ms. crier featuring .
until now , its hollywood gossip show have featured cnn during the key evening period .
but do so 70 % of the cable-television-equipped households that news watch between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. , discovered the network , so want in cnn .
two live interviews a day , will probably do the shaw-crier team with at least for now , similar to cnn 's other newcasts appearing most of the program , say mr. amos .
`` hard to conceive it of switching over people to cnn for at least in the public 's mind , what , is the same news , find i '' say reuven frank , the former two-time president of nbc news and creator of the huntley-brinkley report .
is also slated the evening news as cnn 's stage for its big push into investigative journalism .
in august , award-winning producer pamela hill , the former head of news specials at abc hired the network .
a staff of about 35 investigative reporters who weekly , in-depth segments , will produce with an eye toward big stories breaking be assembling she .
excitement will generate the headlines created by such scoops for its `` branded '' programs , in the way did so well `` 60 minutes '' for cbs hope cnn executives .
be that such a departure from the past that are many in the industry skeptical will follow through cnn with its investigative commitment , after the cost of in-depth pieces producing especially see it .
`` any inclination money to spend on production , have never shown they '' say michael mosettig , a senior producer with macneil-lehrer newshour , who that is cnn indispensable to his job notes .
resulting in a less-experienced work force have always ranged the network 's salaries far below industry standards , .
raises of as much as 15 % , recently gave cnn most employees but they 're still drastically underpaid compared with the networks .
`` is cnn my wire service ; be they on top of everything say mr. mosettig : .
but to improve , the investment in people to make have really got they '' .
in any case , reason any tinkering with cnn 's format to fear have cable-tv-system operators .
cable-tv market they on the very grazing opportunities to discourage seek cnn .
`` would obviously be upset we if evolved those kinds of services into more general-interest , long-format programming , '' say robert stengel , senior vice president , programming , of continental cablevision inc. , which a 2 % stake in turner broadcasting hold .
the position took pennzoil co. in its dispute with texaco , did not repudiate contrary to your sept. 8 article `` texaco 's view back too late court in pennzoil case -- '' the second u.s. circuit court of appeals opinion in the arcadian phosphate case .
that agreements to which to be bound did not intend the parties will not enforce courts was the fundamental rule of contract law applied to both cases .
in the pennzoil/texaco litigation , to be bound intended pennzoil and getty oil found the courts ; in arcadian phosphates there was no intention to be bound found they .
admittedly , is the principle in the cases the same .
but almost always turn the outcome of a legal dispute on the facts .
and as found by the various courts in these two lawsuits , was the facts , different .
its application five valley federal branches , to buy withdrew imperial corp. of america from regulators the transaction leaving in limbo said valley federal savings & loan association .
appear the broken purchase as additional evidence of trouble at imperial corp. , its application withdrew the company from the federal office of thrift supervision because of an informal notice that community reinvestment act requirements to meet failed imperial 's thrift unit said whose spokesman .
savings and loan associations money to lend in amounts related to areas where is received deposits require the community reinvestment act .
announced in august , about $ 146 million in deposits at the five outlets in california 's san joaquin valley included the transaction , .
was n't disclosed terms , but a modest pretax gain to post and about $ 2 million in operating costs to save annually expected it had said valley federal .
that whether another buyer for the branches to seek or the transaction with imperial corp. , which community reinvestment act requirements to meet is attempting it said to pursue is considering it said valley federal friday .
is based valley federal , with assets of $ 3.3 billion , in van nuys .
is imperial corp. , based in san diego , the parent of imperial savings & loan .
in the first six months of the year a net loss of $ 33.1 million posted it .
it the `` be we too broke to fight '' defense call .
a new tack is trying lawyers for dozens of insolvent savings and loan associations in their efforts suits filed by borrowers , developers and creditors to defuse .
that should be dismissed the suits , 700 to 1,000 numbering in texas alone , as moot because the money judgments to pay have neither the s&ls nor the extinct federal savings and loan insurance corp. claim the thrifts ' lawyers .
though a common-sense ring may have the argument to it , there be little precedent their position to back concede even the s&l lawyers .
be it willing the notion , to entertain still , have signaled one federal appeals court and their arguments have renewed the lawyers in texas and eight other states where is permitted the defense under state law .
a long way could go the dismissal of the pending suits toward court dockets in texas clearing and the fslic 's massive legal bills , which $ 73 million topped last year reducing .
was encouraged the s&l lawyers last month by an appellate-court ruling in two cases brought against defunct sunbelt savings & loan association of dallas by the developers of the valley ranch , best known as the training center for the dallas cowboys football team .
foreclosed sunbelt on the ranch .
`` that there will never be any assets with which a judgment against sunbelt savings to satisfy nor any means to collect from any other party , including fslic '' argued sunbelt and the fslic to the fifth u.s. circuit court of appeals .
`` if true , '' wrote the court , `` dismissal of these actions would justify this contention on prudential grounds '' .
but enough financial information about sunbelt and the fslic lacked it said the court and the cases sent back to federal district court in dallas .
a brief to file this week the district judge the suits , to dismiss urging plan he because its assets exceeded sunbelt 's liabilities by about $ 2 billion it when closed federal regulators in august 1988 say charles haworth , a lawyer for sunbelt , .
`` is this institution just brain dead , '' say mr. haworth , a partner in the dallas office of andrews & kurth , a houston law firm .
but such arguments dismiss a lawyer for triland investment group , the developer of valley ranch , as a `` defense du jour '' .
a judgment for triland could be satisfied in ways other than a monetary award , including the reversal of sunbelt 's foreclosure on valley ranch say attorney richard jackson of dallas .
`` the court be asking we for a number of things can grant he in addition to the thrill of victory , '' say he .
`` the valley ranch 'd take free and clear we as a booby prize .
personal reasons citing resigned kenneth j. thygerson , who president of this thrift holding company was named in august , , .
to travel between the job in denver and his san diego home , had planned he but the commute too difficult to continue has found said mr. thygerson .
was n't named a new president .
the anc 's sisulu and seven other political prisoners freed south africa .
flags of the outlawed african national congress , brandishing many a tumultuous reception gave thousands of supporters , the anti-apartheid activists upon their return to black townships across the country .
was equality for blacks in south africa in reach said the 77-year-old sisulu , sentenced along with black nationalist nelson mandela to life in 1964 for the government , to overthrow plotting .
was viewed the releases , announced last week by president de klerk , as pretoria 's tacit legalization of the anc .
remain mandela , the most prominent leader of the anc , considered in prison .
but is widely expected his release within the next few months .
that was piled up thousands of tons of goods widespread shortages across the nation to ease needed at ports and rail depots , and was rotting food shipments because of a lack of people and equipment the cargo to move reported the soviet union .
was cited strikes and mismanagement , and warned premier ryzhkov of `` tough measures '' .
there might be `` room for flexibility '' in a bill federal funding of abortions for poor women who are vicitims of rape and incest to allow indicated bush .
his opposition to such funding , reiterated he but hope of a compromise expressed .
at a news conference friday , a call for the ouster of panama 's noriega also renewed the president , .
any right to abortion without the consent of their parents have n't minors said the white house .
was stated the administration 's policy in a friend-of-the-court brief the supreme court more leeway abortions to restrict to give states urging .
that the authority u.s. fugitives to seize overseas without the permission of foreign governments have been given the fbi announced the justice department .
that would n't be invoked the new policy by the bush administration without full consideration of foreign-policy implications emphasized secretary of state baker friday .
the space shuttle atlantis ready for launch tomorrow following a five-day postponement of the flight because of a faulty engine computer pronounced nasa .
was replaced the device .
the galileo space probe to dispatch on an exploration mission to jupiter is the spacecraft 's five astronauts .
traveled south korea 's president roh for a five-day visit that to focus on ties between washington and seoul is expected to the u.s. .
to meet with bush tomorrow is roh , who calls for the reduction of u.s. military forces in south korea , is facing and a joint session of congress to address on wednesday is .
the party to purge of `` hostile and anti-party elements '' and wealthy private businessmen , whom exploiters called they voted china 's communist leadership .
reported by the official xinhua news agency , that is intensifying the crackdown prompted by student-led pro-democracy protests in june indicated the decision , .
the number of emigres to flee to the west beginning today expected bringing to more than 1,200 flocked hundreds of east germans to bonn 's embassy in warsaw , .
escaped more than 2,100 others to west germany through hungary over the weekend .
in leipzig , street protests internal change to demand to continue vowed activists .
met zaire 's president mobutu in southern france with angolan rebel leader savimbi and a senior u.s. envoy in a bid an accord angola 's civil war to end to revive .
was n't disclosed details of the talks , described by a zairean official as `` very delicate , '' .
insisted plo leader arafat on guarantees that any elections in the israeli-occupied territories would be impartial .
his remarks made he to a plo gathering in baghdad .
in the occupied lands , a u.s. plan israeli-palestinian talks to arrange rejected underground leaders of the arab uprising as such discussions holding in cairo opposed shamir .
proposals for a new timetable for the withdrawal of syria 's forces from lebanon presented lebanese christian lawmakers to arab mediators at talks in saudi arabia .
two years to pull back to eastern lebanon , starting from the time political power for moslems increase beirut 's legislature give a plan currently under study damascus .
the texas-louisiana coast to swamp to combine with the highest tides of the year threatened hurricane jerry .
to evacuate was ordered thousands of residents of low-lying areas as headed north the storm in the gulf of mexico with 80 mph winds .
an association miami beach financier victor posner 's control of the restaurant chain to oppose formed they said a group of arby 's franchisees .
is the decision the latest move in an escalating battle between the franchisees and mr. posner that began in august .
at the time , more than $ 200 million offered a group r.b. partners ltd. , called consisting of eight of arby 's largest franchisees , arby 's inc. , which is part of dwg corp to buy .
is dwg a holding company controlled by mr. posner .
one week later , was fired leonard h. roberts , president and chief executive officer of arby 's , in a dispute with mr. posner .
friday , the formation of an association -- a.p. association inc. called -- `` the integrity of the arby 's system to preserve '' announced 42 franchisees .
`` that is continued control of arby 's by victor posner totally unacceptable to us , because is it extremely likely irreparable damage to the arby 's system to cause have concluded we said the franchisees , owners or operators of 1,000 of the 1,900 franchised arby 's in the u.s. , : .
all efforts victor posner to remove from control of arby 's inc. and the arby 's system support we '' .
royalty payments withholding and a class-action lawsuit court approval for the withholdings seeking initiating would consider it , among other things , said the group .
in florida , `` a winning system should disrupt any individual or group or illegally interfere with existing contractual relationships for their own self-serving motives do n't think we responded renee mottram , a senior vice president at dwg , : .
that still persist inflation , show september 's steep rise in producer prices and contributed the pessimism over interest rates caused by the new price data to the stock market 's plunge friday .
after falling for three consecutive months , 0.9 % shot up the producer price index for finished goods last month , reported the labor department friday , as jumped energy prices after tumbling through the summer .
although the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average , did n't trigger the report , which was released before opened the stock market , a role did play it in the market 's decline said analysts .
the price data , the grimmest inflation news in months , immediately viewed analysts as evidence that was the federal reserve unlikely interest rates to fall to allow as had hoped many investors .
the belief that was pressures in the economy sufficient the fed to keep from credit , easing further fueling that 0.5 % grew retail sales in september , to $ 145.21 billion reported the commerce department friday .
came that rise on top of a 0.7 % gain in august , and there is still healthy consumer demand in the economy suggested .
`` the belief that to be an imminent easing of monetary policy , there was going weakened the friday report , combined with the actions of the fed , think i '' said robert dederick , chief economist at northern trust co. in chicago .
but was economists divided over the extent of the inflation threat signaled by the new numbers .
`` is the overall 0.9 % increase serious in itself , but that excluding food and energy , still increased the producer price index by 0.7 % , is what is even worse '' said gordon richards , an economist at the national association of manufacturers .
but rising energy prices and the annual autumn increase in car prices blamed sung won sohn , chief economist at norwest corp. in minneapolis , for most of the september jump .
`` would say i is this not bad news ; is this a blip , '' said he .
`` is not really out of line the core rate '' .
all year , the producer price index , which changes in the prices receive producers for goods measure have skewed energy prices .
unquestionably have fallen back from its torrid pace last winter , when sent a steep run-up in world oil prices surging the index at double-digit annual rates inflation .
the index to decline for three consecutive months causing then plummeted energy prices through the summer , .
overall , have climbed the index at a 5.1 % compound annual rate since the start of the year , said the labor department .
moreover , may have ended this year 's good inflation news last month , 6.5 % when zoomed up energy prices after 7.3 % plunging in august .
oil prices relatively stable the future pace of inflation uncertain leaving to remain in the months ahead , expect some analysts .
that would lead the climb in oil prices last month to a substantial rise in the producer price index , had expected analysts but was the 0.9 % climb higher than anticipated most .
`` to continue for a few months , is going the resurgence -lcb- in inflation -rcb- think i '' said john mueller , chief economist at bell mueller cannon , a washington economic forecasting firm .
will moderate that inflation next year , that is credit conditions fairly tight world-wide saying predicted he .
but that `` is last month 's rise n't as bad an omen '' as suggest the 0.9 % figure said dirk van dongen , president of the national association of wholesaler-distributors , .
`` if the data examine carefully , you is concentrated the increase in energy and motor vehicle prices , rather than being a broad-based advance in the prices of consumer and industrial goods , '' explained he .
3.8 % jumped passenger car prices in september , after 0.5 % climbing in august and declining in the late spring and summer .
was the september increase a one-time event , coming as their 1990 models introduced dealers said many analysts .
although was adjusted all the price data for normal seasonal fluctuations , rose car prices beyond the customary autumn increase .
a hefty 1.1 % rose prices for capital equipment in september , while 1.1 % fell prices for home electronic equipment .
0.6 % , declined food prices after 0.3 % climbing in august .
that 0.8 % rose car sales in september to $ 32.82 billion meanwhile , showed the retail sales report .
but could have come at least part of the increase from higher prices , said analysts .
1.7 % rose sales at general merchandise stores after 0.6 % declining in august , while 1.8 % fell sales of building materials after 1.7 % rising .
0.4 % grew producer prices for intermediate goods in september , after dropping for three consecutive months .
1.1 % jumped prices for crude goods , an array of raw materials , after 1.9 % declining in august and 0.2 % edging up in july .
a loss of at least $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter to report expect it said cityfed financial corp. .
in the year-earlier period , net income of $ 485,000 , but no per-share earnings had cityfed .
stem the loss from several factors said cityfed 's president and chief executive officer , john atherton , .
rose nonperforming assets to slightly more than $ 700 million from $ 516 million between june and september said he .
consisted approximately 85 % of the total of nonperforming commercial real estate assets .
that between $ 85 million and $ 110 million will provide it for credit losses in the third quarter accordingly , estimated cityfed .
that may be required significant additional loan-loss provisions by federal regulators as part of the current annual examination of city federal savings bank , cityfed 's primary subsidiary , based in somerset , n.j added cityfed .
105 banking offices in new jersey and florida operate city federal .
its portfolio of high-yield corporate bonds will also mark cityfed to market as a result of federal legislation that themselves divest savings institutions of such bonds requiring said mr. atherton .
said cityfed , will result that action , in a charge against third-quarter results of approximately $ 30 million .
its remaining mortgage loan origination operations outside its principal markets in new jersey and florida to shed expect it and , as a result , a charge for discontinued operations is taking also said cityfed .
said mr. atherton , will result all these actions , in a loss of $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter .
`` depending on the resolution of certain accounting issues relating to mortgages servicing and the outcome of the annual examination of city federal currently in progress with respect to the appropriate level of loan loss reserves , this range could significantly exceed the total loss for the quarter added however he , : .
it dividend payments on its two classes of preferred stock , to suspend ordered federal thrift regulators that have heightened regulators ' concerns about the troubled institution indicating said centrust savings bank .
in a statement , the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent losses '' in its junk-bond portfolio cited the regulators in the suspension of the dividends ordering said miami-based centrust .
centrust the preferred stock buying back to stop also ordered regulators .
the federal office of thrift supervision , which the directive , issued criticized david l. paul , chairman and chief executive officer , was it `` inappropriate '' and based on `` insufficient '' reasons saying .
regulators the decision to reverse to get will try the thrift said he .
is the suspension of a preferred stock dividend a serious step that that deep concerns about an institution 's health have regulators signal .
in march , centrust a `` troubled institution , '' labeled regulators largely because of its big junk-bond holdings and its operating losses .
in the same month , the institution common stock dividends paying to stop until was its operations on track ordered the office of thrift supervision .
for the nine months ended june 30 , a net loss of $ 21.3 million , had centrust compared with year-earlier net income of $ 52.8 million .
one of the largest junk-bond portfolios of any thrift in the nation hold centrust , which is florida 's largest thrift , .
since april , its high-yield bond holdings have pared it to about $ 890 million from $ 1.35 billion .
are only about $ 150 million of the current holdings tradeable securities registered with the securities and exchange commission said mr. paul .
said he , is the remainder , commercial loan participations , or private placements , that is n't filed with the sec and a ready market do n't have .
centrust have been hounding the office of thrift supervision current market values to provide for its holdings , but such values ca n't easily obtain it because of the relative illiquidity of the bonds and lack of a ready market have said centrust .
increasingly antsy about centrust 's and other thrifts ' junk-bond holdings have become regulators in light of the recent federal thrift bailout legislation and the recent deep decline in the junk-bond market .
thrifts themselves to divest of junk bonds in the new , somber regulatory climate require the legislation .
in american stock exchange composite trading friday , closed down 12.5 cents centrust common shares at $ 3 , .
in a statement friday , the regulators ' decision , challenged mr. paul `` have been substantially offset the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent '' junk-bond losses by gains in other activities of the bank '' saying .
have been set aside substantial reserves for possible losses from the junk bonds also said he .
in the third quarter , for instance , $ 22.5 million added centrust to its general reserves .
should instead move ahead the regulators with centrust 's request 63 of its 71 branches to sell to great western bank , a unit of great western financial corp. based in beverly hills , calif approving said mr. paul .
is the branch sale the centerpiece of centrust 's strategy itself to transform from a high-flying institution that relied heavily on securities trading for profits , into a traditional s&l according to mr. paul .
a decision on the proposed transaction , which was announced in july , had expected most analysts and thrift executives long before now .
the delay interpret many as an indication that is regulators skeptical about the proposal .
can be sold branches and deposits at a premium in the event an institution take over federal regulators .
the branch sale , however , tout centrust , $ 150 million would bring in it and the thrift 's assets reduce to $ 6.7 billion from $ 9 billion saying .
positive tangible capital of $ 82 million , or about 1.2 % of assets , would give the sale it from a negative $ 33 million as of sept. 30 , centrust close to regulatory standards thus bringing said it .
the company 's large amount of good will would also reduce the branch sale by about $ 180 million said centrust .
centrust more dependent than ever on brokered deposits and junk bonds will make the branch sale however , say critics , .
mr. paul counters that the size of centrust to further pare by more than $ 1 billion of brokered certificates of deposit not renewing due when come they intend he .
its junk-bond portfolio to unload by the bonds , to sell off continuing is also working the thrift and some of them to eventually place in a separate affiliate , as required under the new thrift law plan it .
on a recent saturday night , in the midst of west germany 's most popular prime-time show , the host that any of 100 different cheeses could name she after just one nibble , while blindfolded bet a contestant .
the bet won the woman .
but perhaps even more remarkable , the top slot in the country 's tv ratings , regularly win the three-hour-show , `` wetten dass '' ( make a bet ) , as many as 50 % of west german households sometimes drawing .
as the 1992 economic integration approaches , quotas against such pop invaders as `` dallas , '' `` miami vice '' and `` l.a. law '' to impose threatening have taken europe 's cultural curators to the ramparts against american `` cultural imperialism , '' .
but every bit as cheesy as what to keep out is trying they seems much of what to protect want the europeans .
have come the most militant opposition to american tv imports from french television and movie producers , who quotas that be produced a full 60 % of europe 's tv shows in europe ensuring have demanded .
enough broad-based support to prevail to win so far , have failed the french .
one reason why suggest a glance through the television listings and a few twists of the european television dial .
while there is some popular action and drama series , the high culture and classy production values might expect one boast few .
is filled more european air time with low-budget game shows , variety hours , movies and talk shows , are many of which authorized knock-offs of their american counterparts .
a belgian to be italian pretending have a flemish game show as its host .
is one of italy 's favorite shows , `` fantastico , '' a tepid variety show , so popular that a chocolate product , `` cacao fantastico , '' was sung whose praises each week by dancing showgirls to buy clamored viewers -- though even did n't exist the product .
the cheese stunt , topping on another typical evening of fun on `` wetten dass , '' a bet with the show 's host , thomas gottschalk , that 300 german dialects could identify he over the telephone won a contestant .
a bet that $ 150 worth of quarters could pile up someone on a slanted coin also won a celebrity guest , u.s. ambassador to west germany richard burt , .
the penalty their combined weight in potato pancakes frying and selling to spend a day with west german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher agreeing nonetheless paid mr. burt as if had lost he , .
if seem this like pretty weak stuff around which the protectionist barriers , to raise may be it because all the protection can get they need these shows .
only their own local audience , and often only a small portion of that usually target european programs .
it rarely make mega-hits in germany or italy even to france or great britain , and almost never show up on u.s. screens .
have generally resulted attempts `` pan-european '' programs to produce in disappointment .
have been described one annual co-production , the three-hour-long `` eurovision song contest , '' soft-rock songs from each of 20 european countries , featuring as the world 's most boring tv show .
is another , `` jeux sans frontieres , '' fools pointless tasks , performing where make villagers from assorted european countries of themselves a hit in france .
flopped fast a u.s.-made imitation under the title `` almost anything goes '' .
a relatively small part of british air time make up the cream of the british crop , the literary dramas that is shown on u.s. public television as `` masterpiece theater , '' .
is most british programming more of an acquired taste .
there is `` one man and his dog , '' a herding contest among sheep dogs , for instance , .
riveting to the british also is hours of dart-throwing championships , even more hours of lawn bowling contests and still more hours of snooker marathons .
better , though still mixed , fortunes have had european drama .
focus the most popular such shows on narrow national concerns .
a good run in france , which ended after was injured the female lead in a real-life auto accident had a french knock-off of `` dallas , '' `` chateauvallon '' called and set in a french vineyard , .
is `` schwarzwaldklinik , '' ( black forest clinic ) , a kind of german `` st . elsewhere '' set in a health spa , popular in germany , and has spread into france .
is italy 's most popular series a drama `` la piovra , '' or `` the octopus , '' called which the fight of an idealistic young investigator in palermo against the mafia chronicle .
was it front-page news in italy earlier this year when was gunned down the fictional inspector in the series .
was spain 's most popular mini-series this year `` juncal , '' the story of an aging bullfighter .
`` is pretty well established the trend now that is local programs the most popular , with american programs second , '' say brian wenham , a former director of programs for the british broadcasting corp .
`` given a choice , a home-produced show will watch everybody '' .
the recent crusade more worthy shows of its own , programs with broader appeal to produce thus , have begun europe .
`` to start from scratch , writers and producers to train shows that to see , will want other people to make have basically got we '' concede colin young , head of britain 's national film theatre school .
while that is advertising the bane of television , contend some in the u.s. that to blame for the european tv industry 's sluggish development is its absence believe here many .
until recently , most of the air time controlled national governments in europe and little or no advertising allowed .
since was guaranteed production costs , it did n't matter that could n't be sold abroad a program or put into syndication , as is most american programs .
but was spent either , not much money a situation that cheap-to-make talk and game shows , encouraged while expensive-to-produce dramas discouraging on the shows , .
now , however , is coming commercial channels to most european countries , and at the same time , is spreading rapidly satellite and cable technology .
just last week , two commercial channels authorized greece for the first time ; commercial television to allow alongside its state channels earlier began spain .
is the result a new and huge appetite for programming .
what must be a baffling cultural mix to most of its audience offer sky channel , a british-based venture of australian-american press tycoon rupert murdoch , .
programs available obviously made cheaply from its boss 's other ventures offer the financially struggling station .
in a madrid hotel room the end of a badly acted series about a fishing boat on australia 's great barrier reef , recently , caught a viewer `` to stay tuned for the further adventures of skippy the kangaroo '' only to be urged by the british announcer .
contributed lisa grishaw-mueller in bonn , laura colby in milan , tim carrington in london and carlta vitzhum in madrid to this article .
an agreement their guided-missile divisions , to merge is nearing they collaboration between the two defense contractors greatly expanding said british aerospace plc and france 's thomson-csf s.a. .
combined annual sales of at least # 1.4 billion ( $ 2.17 billion ) would have the 50-50 joint venture , which eurodynamics , may be dubbed and would be among the world 's largest missile makers .
after two years of talks , is plans for the venture sufficiently advanced for french and british government clearance to seek the companies .
hope the companies for a final agreement by year-end .
the rapidly growing ties between the two companies , would strengthen the venture and them a leading force in european defense contracting make help .
in recent months , the once-balkanized world of european arms manufacture have reshaped a string of cross-border mergers and joint ventures .
already , collaborate british aerospace and french government-controlled thomson-csf on a british missile contract and on an air-traffic control radar system .
just last week a joint bid ferranti international signal plc , a smaller british defense contractor rocked by alleged accounting fraud at a u.s. unit to buy may make they announced they .
controversy is stirring the sudden romance of british aerospace and thomson-csf -- traditionally bitter competitors for middle east and third world weapons contracts -- in western europe 's defense industry .
most threatened would be their respective national rivals , including matra s.a. in france and britain 's general electric co. plc by closer british aerospace-thomson ties .
but forces as join their competitors is sitting quietly by neither matra nor gec -- unrelated to stamford , conn.-based general electric co. -- .
yesterday , that the ferranti fight , may join his company as part of a possible consortium that would bid against british aerospace and thomson-csf confirmed a source close to gec .
matra , britain 's dowty group plc , west germany 's daimler-benz ag , and france 's dassault group include companies with which talks about a possible joint ferranti bid have had gec .
but it may be weeks before whether to bid , decide gec and its potential partners indicated the source .
ferranti 's financial accounts , which # 215 million in fictitious contracts at a u.s. unit , international signal & control group , with which merged ferranti last year included recently said auditors to study plan first gec .
also , might be blocked any gec bid by british antitrust regulators ; is ferranti gec 's main competitor on several key defense-electronics contracts , and british defense ministry worries about concentration in the country 's defense industry may heighten its purchase by gec .
gec 's direct role in ferranti however , would diminish a consortium bid , and ministry officials might consequently appease .
unperturbed by the prospect of a fight with gec for ferranti appeared a british aerospace spokeswoman : `` is competition the name of the game , '' said she .
is it n't interested in ferranti insist at least one potential gec partner , matra , .
`` nothing to say about this affair , which us , do n't concern have we '' said a matra official sunday .
said the british aerospace spokeswoman , is the missile venture , a needed response to the `` new environment '' in defense contracting .
for both thomson and british aerospace , have come earnings in their home markets under pressure from increasingly tight-fisted defense ministries ; and have been hurt middle east sales , a traditional mainstay for both companies ' exports , by five years of weak oil prices .
is the venture 's importance for thomson great .
depend the future of its defense business on cooperation with other europeans building feel thomson .
is consolidating the european defense industry ; for instance , gec recently joined west germany 's siemens ag in a takeover of britain 's plessey co. , and messerschmitt-boelkow blohm g.m.b . h . to buy agreed daimler-benz
in missiles , is already overshadowed thomson by british aerospace and by its home rival , france 's aerospatiale s.a. ; to better compete , say thomson officials , a partnership need they .
50-50 ownership of the planned venture , to justify a cash payment would make thomson to british aerospace .
is annual revenue of british aerospace 's missile business about # 950 million , said a thomson spokesman .
its 17-year-old family of rapier surface-to-air missiles include british aerospace 's chief missile products .
with about half british aerospace 's annual revenue , the crotale surface-to-air missile family include thomson missile products , .
a proposed two-step , 830 million canadian-dollar ( us$ 705.6 million ) expansion of its system will delay it because is shrinking canada 's output of crude oil said interprovincial pipe line co. .
that about 1.64 million barrels a day 8 % lower than a previous estimate will total canadian oil output by 1991 , indicate revised industry forecasts said interprovincial , canada 's biggest oil pipeline operator and a major transporter of crude to the u.s. , .
about 1.69 million barrels a day averaged canadian crude production during 1989 's first half , about 1 % below the 1988 level .
`` is dropping the capability of existing fields oil to deliver , '' and is oil exploration activity also down dramatically , as their emphasis shift many producers to natural gas , said ronald watkins , vice president for government and industry relations with interprovincial 's parent , interhome energy inc .
is volume on interprovincial 's system down about 2 % since january and to fall further , is expected expansion unnecessary until perhaps the mid-1990s making said mr. watkins .
`` there has been a swing of the pendulum back to the gas side , '' said he .
is the outlook for natural gas better than it is for oil , say many of canada 's oil and gas producers and their exploration and development budgets have shifted accordingly .
is down 30 % from a year ago , due to the increasing focus on gas exploration , the number of active drilling rigs in canada and is `` down more than that , '' the number of completed oil wells said robert feick , manager of crude oil with calgary 's independent petroleum association of canada , an industry group .
is the main reason for the production decline shrinking output of light crude from mature , conventional fields in western canada said mr. watkins .
about 75 % of all crude produced in western canada , transport interprovincial and consist almost 60 % of interprovincial 's total volume of light crude .
about 600,000 barrels a day , or about 9.1 % of net u.s. crude imports , total canada 's current oil exports to the u.s. said john lichtblau , president of the new york-based petroleum industry research foundation .
canada rank that as the fourth-largest source of imported crude , behind saudi arabia , nigeria and mexico .
u.s. reliance on oil from overseas , particularly the middle east intensify will help canada 's declining crude output , combined with the fast-shrinking output of u.s. crude , said mr. lichtblau .
`` be it very much a growing concern .
'' but when is something inevitable , to live with it , learn you said he .
that by itself u.s. dependence on offshore crude , wo n't increase however , the delay of interprovincial 's proposed expansion since is limited canadian imports in any case by canada 's falling output stressed mr. lichtblau .
under terms of its proposed two-step expansion , which regulatory approval , would have required 200,000 barrels a day of additional capacity to add to its system , beginning with a modest expansion by 1991 intended interprovincial .
a capacity of 1.55 million barrels a day currently have the system .
that more than 50 % dropped third-quarter earnings from the previous quarter as a result of reduced sales volume and increased costs to report expect inland steel industries inc. .
in the second quarter , net income of $ 45.3 million or $ 1.25 a share , had the steelmaker including a pretax charge of $ 17 million related to the settlement of a suit , on sales of $ 1.11 billion .
shipments reduced normal seasonal softness and lost orders caused by prolonged labor talks by 200,000 tons in the latest quarter , compared with the second quarter said the company .
at the same time , was hurt the integrated-steel business by continued increases in materials costs and repair and maintenance expenses , as well as higher labor costs under its new contract .
was hurt the service-center business by reduced margins and start-up costs associated with its joseph t. ryerson & son unit .
some shipping-rate improvements to see in both the intergrated-steel and steel-service-center segments , which should result in improved results for the fourth quarter is beginning it said the company .
will be announced its third-quarter results later this week said inland .
in the year-earlier third quarter , when was the industry in the midst of a boom , net of $ 61 million , or $ 1.70 a share , had the company on sales of $ 1.02 billion .
in july , wall street stunned the company with the prediction that growth in the personal computer business overall would be only 10 % in 1990 , a modest increase when compared with the sizzling expansion of years past .
-- this taking as a sign that was a broad industry slump in the offing -- reacted investors by the company 's stock , which $ 3.25 lost that day to close at $ 52 in national over-the-counter trading selling .
but was all of three months ago that .
last week , revenue for its first quarter ended sept. 30 34 % to increase expect it said microsoft .
the company 's stock $ 6.50 to surge to close at $ 75.50 a share caused the announcement .
is microsoft 's surprising strength one example of the difficulty investors looking for reassurances about the financial health of the computer firms facing .
`` be it hard what to expect at this point , to know '' said peter rogers , an analyst at robertson stephens & co .
`` characterization defy the industry '' .
to illustrate , that of the 14 computer-related firms follow he , earnings below last year 's results , will report half for their most recent quarter and half above those results said mr. rogers .
among those companies a down quarter to have expected is hewlett-packard co. , amdahl corp. and sun microsystems inc. , generally solid performers in the past .
disappointing results to report also is expected international business machines corp. .
improved earnings to show for the period ended sept meanwhile , is expected apple computer inc. , .
come another contradictory message from businessland inc. , a computer retailer .
in july , that had resulted booming sales of new personal computers from apple and ibm in more than doubling net income for its fourth quarter ended june 30 to $ 7.4 million , or 23 cents a share reported the company .
this month , investors that expectations had n't met results for its first quarter ended sept. 30 however , warned businessland .
earnings of 14 to 17 cents a share , down from 25 cents a share in the year-earlier period expect it said the company .
while confuse the earnings picture , is the major forces the industry to shape in the coming year expected clearer say observers .
to war over standards will continue companies .
in computer publishing , adobe systems inc. , which software that the image produced by printers and displays control sell is hurting a battle over typefaces .
until recently , a lock on the market for image software , had adobe but last month rebelled apple , adobe 's biggest customer , and microsoft .
now is collaborating the two firms on an alternative to adobe 's approach , and is they likely ibm , the biggest seller of personal computers , to carry along with them say analysts .
strong however , appear the short-term outlook for adobe 's business , .
a new software program that 's being heralded as a boon for owners of low-end printers sold by apple to ship is beginning the company .
is aimed the program at the quality of printed material improving .
1,000 calls a day about the product have been receiving the mountain view , calif. , company since was demonstrated several weeks ago it at a computer publishing conference said john warnock , adobe 's chief executive officer , .
trouble for software firms generally meanwhile , spell competition between various operating systems , which the basic functions of a computer , control .
`` uncertainty create it and sales , usually slow down '' said russ crabs , an analyst at soundview financial group .
probably is this behind the expected weak performance of aldus corp. , maker of a widely used computer publishing program said mr. crabs .
aldus earnings of 21 cents a share on revenues of $ 19.5 million for its third quarter , compared with earnings of 30 cents a share on revenue of 20.4 million in the year-earlier period to report expect he .
could n't be reached aldus officials for comment .
on the other hand , increasingly irrelevant to grow is expected the battle of the bus .
is a bus the data highway within a computer .
one type of bus microchannel , called is backing ibm while another method have chosen the nine other leading computer makers , including h-p and compaq computer corp. , .
`` do n't care users about the bus , '' said daniel benton , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co .
said he for instance , four different buses use apple 's family of macintosh computers , `` and '' to mind seem no one .
will grow the gap between winners and laggards .
in personal computers , their hold on their business to tighten is expected apple , compaq and ibm .
at the same time , ground to lose will continue second-tier firms .
the personal computer business even may leave altogether some lagging competitors .
for instance , a candidate its troubled operation to sell is considered wyse technology , .
`` a distribution business , establishing have done well wyse but products that sell , have n't delivered they '' said kimball brown , an analyst at prudential-bache securities .
a loss of 12 cents a share for its quarter ended sept will report wyse , is whose terminals business strong , estimate mr. brown .
to eat away at the business of more traditional computer firms will continue personal-computer makers .
to increasingly take on functions carried out by more expensive minicomputers and mainframes is expected ever-more powerful desk-top computers , designed with one or more microprocessors as their `` brains , '' .
`` is really being obsoleted the guys that traditional hardware make by microprocessor-based machines , '' said mr. benton .
as a result of this trend , to counterattack with microprocessor-based systems of their own is scrambling longtime powerhouses h-p , ibm and digital equipment corp. .
but to act quickly will have they .
compaq a family of high-end personal computers to unveil later this year that are powerful enough to serve as the hub for communications within large networks of desk-top machines expect mr. benton .
this `` server '' market also have targeted a raft of new computer companies .
end population drain for midwestern states
a comeback is making iowa .
so is indiana , ohio and michigan .
is the population of all four states on the upswing , according to new census bureau estimates , following declines throughout the early 1980s .
to be sure , is the gains , rather small .
for instance , grow its population by 11,000 people , or 0.4 % , between 1987 and 1988 , saw iowa , say the census bureau .
still , is even that modest increase good news for a state that had n't grown at all since 1981 .
between 1987 and 1988 , was north dakota the only state in the midwest population , to lose a loss of 4,000 people .
its own have been holding the northeast in the population race .
have grown seven of nine states including new york , which 4 % of its population lost during the 1970s each year since 1980 , .
and although slight declines suffered earlier in the decade , pennsylvania and massachusetts is growing again they .
at the same time , their own population turnaround have had several states in the south and west .
population is now losing seven states that grew in the early 1980s -- west virginia , mississippi , louisiana , oklahoma , montana , wyoming and alaska .
the northeast and midwest , overall , though , still outpace the south and west and that will continue the pattern ensure fast-growing states like florida and california .
but narrowing have clearly started the growth gap between the sun belt and other regions .
thanks to modern medicine , old is growing together more couples .
that was living up from 59 % in 1970 64 % of people aged 65 to 74 with a spouse in 1988 , show a new census bureau study of the noninstitutionalized population .
be they less likely to live alone , do n't mean however this .
have remained that share at about 24 % since 1970 .
in 1988 , lived down from 15 % in 1970 10 % of those aged 65 to 74 with relatives other than spouses , .
as even older , get people widowed become many .
but even among those aged 75 and older , rose slightly , the share living with a spouse to 40 % in 1988 from 38 % in 1970 .
lived down from 26 % in 1970 only 17 % of those aged 75 and older with relatives other than spouses in 1988 , .
have increased the likelihood of living alone beyond the age of 75 to 40 % from 32 % .
independent is remaining longer more people presumably because is they better off physically and financially .
count most careers for the well-to-do
personal success and money place many affluent people above family .
the need to be successful in their jobs , strongly felt they said two-thirds of respondents while the need more time to spend with their families strongly felt they said fewer than half .
being successful in careers and the money make they spending are top priorities for this group .
unlike most studies of the affluent market , the super-rich excluded this survey .
was average household income for the sample $ 194,000 , and was reported average net assets as $ 775,000 .
to learn about one of today 's fastest-growing income groups , the upper-middle class was the goal .
although only 2 % of the population , represent they nearly one-third of discretionary income control they .
across the board , quality , value these consumers what like just they rather than what need they , buy and products that are distinctive appreciate .
despite their considerable incomes and assets , financially secure , do n't feel 40 % of the respondents in the study and that it have made they do n't feel one-fourth .
is they financially well off do n't even feel twenty percent .
be they more able than others do n't feel about 40 % .
while some guilt about being affluent , feel twothirds $ 2,500 or more give only 25 % to charity each year .
religious services attend regularly thirty-five percent ; at the same time , that in life one 's principles to compromise sometimes have one feel 60 % .
have more than doubled the number of women and minorities who jobs in top management in the nation 's largest banks hold since 1978 .
that 47 % of officials and managers in the top 50 banks , up from 33 % in 1978 make up women say the american bankers association .
have risen the share of minorities in those positions to 16 % from 12 % ... .
grew faster than inflation per-capita personal income in the u.s. last year , according to the bureau of economic analysis .
was the amount of income divvied up for each man , woman and child $ 16,489 in 1988 , up 6.6 % from $ 15,472 in 1987 .
ranged per capita personal income from $ 11,116 in mississippi to $ 23,059 in connecticut ... .
there is up 2 % from 1988 , 13.1 million students in college this fall , the national center for education statistics estimates .
is about 54 % women , and is 44 % part-time students .
trouble 's got this small dallas suburb .
trouble with a capital t and rhyme that with p and stand that for pool .
the citizens of river city , iowa , more than 30 years ago , warned prof. harold hill , the con man in meredith willson 's `` the music man , '' against the game .
the town 's fanciest hotel , the grand kempinski , now have barred kindred spirits on addison 's town council from three free pool tables installing in its new lounge .
was they worried about a precedent that pool halls would permit along addison 's main street setting said mayor lynn spruill and two members of the council .
and that `` lead alcohol to betting , which lead to fights '' warned the mayor , in an admonition that a rhythmic resemblance to prof. hill 's , bear .
is the council 's action yet another blow to a sport that its fans claim has been maligned unjustly for years .
`` obviously be they not in touch with what 's going on , '' say tom manske , vice president of the national pocket billiards association .
is pool hot in new york and chicago , insist he , tables where is adding `` upscale , suit-and-tie places '' .
with today 's tougher drunk driving laws , add he , `` to just sit around and drink do n't want people '' .
unlikely besides , seem rowdy behavior at the grand kempinski , $ 200 a night where average rooms and go the cheap mixed drinks for $ 3.50 a pop .
at the lounge , patrons in jeans , t-shirts or tennis shoes wo n't admit manager elizabeth dyer .
but those arguments did n't buy a majority of the addison council .
pool , introducing argued councilwoman riley reinker , would be `` dangerous .
a can of worms would open it '' .
is addison no stranger to cans of worms , either .
after suicide committed its previous mayor last year , that regularly voted town officials on their own projects , special favors gave to developer friends and dipped into the town 's coffers for trips and retreats disclosed an investigation .
town officials , embarrassed the revelations although that was the problems n't as severe as suggested the media argued they .
now come the pool flap .
`` there be some people worried about something pretty ridiculous , think i '' say councilman john nolan .
`` all care was taken this of in ` the music man thought i .
was the only thing could praise robert goldberg about cbs 's new show `` island son '' ( leisure & arts , sept. 25 ) the local color ; their homework unfortunately have done neither he nor the producers of the show .
a hawaiian shirt tucking in and its long sleeves rolling up dress richard chamberlain as a `` mainland haole , '' .
and is the local expression for brother `` brah , '' not `` bruddah . ''
and if flowers even would wear a nurse in her hair while on duty , if was she engaged them to wear behind her left , not right , ear would know she .
sorry , the one redeeming quality of genuine local color do not even have the show .
or so must seem it to jackie mason , the veteran jewish comedian appearing in a new abc sitcom airing on tuesday nights ( 9:30-10 p.m. edt ) .
not only is mr. mason the star of `` chicken soup , '' be he also the inheritor of a comedic tradition dating back to `` duck soup , '' and be he currently a man in hot water .
in neutral language , here , is the gist of mr. mason 's remarks , quoted first in the village voice while was he a paid spokesman for the rudolph giuliani mayoral campaign , and then in newsweek after company parted he and the campaign .
that guilty toward blacks , feel many jewish voters so black candidates support uncritically they said mr. mason .
that bitter feel many black voters about racial discrimination , so black candidates too , support uncritically they , said he .
that more have contributed jews to black causes over the years than vice versa said he .
of course , neutral language did not use mr. mason .
as a practitioner of ethnic humor from the old days on the borscht belt , live television and the nightclub circuit , instinctively reached mr. mason for the vernacular .
was jews `` sick with complexes '' said he ; and david dinkins , mr. giuliani 's black opponent , `` a fancy shvartze with a mustache '' called he .
if less derogatory language had used mr. mason his amateur analysis of the voting behavior of his fellow new yorkers , to articulate would the water be quite so hot ?
because to distinguish between the substance of his comments and the fact that insulting language used he probably would , have bothered it few or none of the people upset by mr. mason 's remarks .
in addition , that is his type of ethnic humor itself a form of racism have implied some of mr. mason 's critics .
for example , that is mr. mason `` like a dinosaur said the new york state counsel for the naacp .
the place where is stuck he is fast leaving people '' .
to distinguish between the type of ethnic humor that aim at another group , disparaging such as `` polish jokes '' ; and the type that is double-edged , aiming inward as well as outward fail these critics .
typically is the latter the humor of the underdog , and was perfected it by both blacks and jews on the minstrel and vaudeville stage as a means of their white and gentile audiences along with themselves mocking .
in the hands of a zealot like lenny bruce , both the self and the audience could cut this double-edged blade to ribbons .
but wielded by a pro like jackie mason , is it a constructive form of mischief .
because despite all the media prattle about not mixing comedy and politics , is they similar in one respect : can serve both as mechanisms for tensions easing and the co-existence of groups in conflict facilitating .
be that why be it dangerous on college campuses and elsewhere , all critical mention of group differences taboo well-intentioned thought police , to have .
as wrote elizabeth kristol in the new york times just before the mason donnybrook , `` perhaps would not boil over intolerance with such intensity if to simmer was allowed honest differences '' .
if still exist group conflicts ( as undeniably do they ) , and if is mr. mason 's type of ethnic humor passe , what other means then do have we for steam letting off ? is the question ,
do n't say the tv sitcom , because to be a genre in its desperate need everybody to attract and nobody , offend politics resembles more than it does comedy that , happen that .
is it true that group differences to simmer do allow the best sitcoms : yuppies vs. blue-collar bostonians in `` cheers '' ; children vs. adults in `` the cosby show '' .
but is these not the differences that headlines make .
in `` chicken soup , '' jackie , a jewish bachelor maddie ( lynn redgrave ) , an irish widow and mother of three , courting against the wishes of his mother ( rita karin ) and her brother michael ( brandon maggart ) play mr. mason .
it 's worth noting that is both disapproving relatives immigrants .
at least , both speak they with strong accents , as do jackie and maddie .
it could n't be more obvious that is being made `` chicken soup '' from an old recipe .
and a safe one -- imagine if was the romance in question between an orthodox jew and a member of the nation of islam .
the theme of courtship between the assimilated offspring of jewish and irish immigrants so popular that a plagiarism suit lost its author , anne nichols , on the grounds that the public domain have entered the plot back in the 1920s , made the play and movie versions of `` abie 's irish rose '' .
and have remained there , it as evidenced by its reappearance in a 1972 cbs sitcom `` bridget loves bernie , '' called that led it to the real-life marriage of meredith baxter and david birney was whose sole distinction .
whether will boil over , the pot but whether will simmer it at all clearly , is not the question with `` chicken soup '' .
is part of the problem the tendency of all sitcoms , ever since the didactic days of norman lear , to preach about social issues .
to some extent , emerge this tendency us to enlighten about ethnic stereotypes by them reversing whenever try the show .
for instance , jackie dislike michael not because be he a shrewd jewish businessman , but because his well-paying job as a salesman quit he in order a social worker to become .
even more problematic is the incompatibility between sitcom preachiness and mr. mason 's comic persona .
occur the best moments in the show at the beginning and the end ( and occasionally in the middle ) , when slip mr. mason into his standup mode and starts that old-fashioned jewish mischief meting out to other people as well as to himself .
but spark too often , lack these routines because like all sitcoms , is this sitcom , timid about mr. mason 's stock in trade - ethnic differences confronting .
that episodes about topics like the catholic-jewish dispute over the carmelite convent at auschwitz putting together start the producers be not suggesting i .
like racial tensions in new york city , to cool down , not heat up , will have that issue , before can simmer it .
but that mr. mason his classic shtik to interrupt with some line about `` caring for other people '' that shmaltzy would sound on the lips of miss america requiring stop they be suggesting i .
a 60-year history of calm , have right up through friday the official white house reaction to a plunge in stock prices .
that `` any fundamental change in the condition of the economy do n't signal the stock-market decline '' said treasury secretary nicholas brady in a statement friday .
added he , `` well-balanced remain `` the economy , '' and is the outlook for continued moderate growth '' .
here be what said ronald reagan after the 1987 crash : `` sound remain the underlying economy .
there is nothing wrong with the economy ... is up all the indices '' .
after the 1929 crash , `` ... is the fundamental business of the country on a sound and prosperous basis said herbert hoover : .
president and chief executive officer of this maker of magnetic recording heads for disk drives was elected james robinson , 57 years old , .
will continue charles j. lawson jr. , 68 , who had been acting chief executive since june 14 , as chairman .
resigned the former president and chief executive , eric w. markrud , in june .
open the possibility of a gains tax reduction enacting this year still leave the senate 's decision a bare-bones deficit-reduction bill without a capital-gains tax cut to approve .
late friday night , an estimated $ 13.5 billion measure that had been stripped of hundreds of provisions that would have widened , rather than narrowed , the federal budget deficit to approve voted 87-7 the senate .
the bill drastically streamlined lawmakers criticism that was it bloated with special-interest tax breaks and spending increases to blunt .
`` a deficit-reduction bill be putting back we in the category of being a deficit-reduction bill , '' said senate budget committee chairman james sasser ( d. , tenn . ) .
but that that some of the measures that had been cast aside , including a capital-gains tax cut could carry would soon be moving other bills through congress said senate supporters of the trimmer legislation .
in addition , a capital-gains provision include the companion deficit-reduction bill already passed by the house .
is house-senate negotiations likely to begin at midweek and last for a while .
`` exactly what will happen on the house side , can predict no one '' said senate minority leader robert dole ( r. , kan . ) .
but , added he , `` capital-gains reform to get this year will work together republicans and democrats believe i '' .
reporters that the capital-gains cut to keep in the final version of the bill would n't push the administration told white house budget director richard darman yesterday .
`` this do n't need we as a way capital gains , to get '' said he .
`` if 's that the signal that comes from the white house , that will help a great deal '' said house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) in an interview , .
was the senate 's decision a setback for president bush and approval of a capital-gains tax cut less certain this year will make .
hardball is playing opponents of the cut .
was he `` confident '' that a capital-gains tax cut would n't include any house-senate agreement on the deficit-reduction legislation said senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) .
and there is n't any `` plans another tax bill that a gains tax cut could carry to produce this year '' said a senior aide to the house ways and means committee , where originate tax legislation , .
is one obvious place a capital-gains tax cut , and perhaps other popular items stripped from the deficit-reduction bill , to attach the legislation the federal borrowing limit to raise .
must be enacted such legislation by the end of the month .
was pared back the senate bill in an attempt deficit-reduction to speed through congress .
because have n't been completed the legislation , across-the-board spending cuts mandated by the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law to enact have president bush until midnight tonight .
that the house to agree to the streamlined bill will pressure the need those cuts to avoid hope senators .
reluctant the senators to join appear the house .
whether is house republicans willing to acquiesce to their senate colleagues ' decision many pet provisions to drop is a key .
`` although be encouraged i by the senate action , '' said chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill . ) of the house ways and means committee , `` is it uncertain whether can be achieved a clean bill in the upcoming conference with the senate . ''
what think president bush is another big question hovering over the debate .
a stripped-down bill without a guaranteed vote on his capital-gains tax cut have been resisting he .
but no way a procedural hurdle to overcome and the 60 votes the capital-gains issue to win on the floor , needed garner saw republican senators so went ahead with the streamlined bill they .
was stripped the senate bill of many popular , though revenue-losing , provisions , is included a number of which in the house-passed bill .
a child-care initiative and extensions of soon-to-expire tax breaks for low-income housing and research-and-development expenditures include these .
also missing is the house 's repeal of a law , section 89 , called that companies comparable health benefits to top paid executives to give rank-and-file workers compel from the senate bill .
was one high-profile provision that was originally in the senate bill but was cut out because money lost it the proposal by chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) of the senate finance committee the deduction for individual retirement accounts to expand .
that measure will consider soon the senate hope he said mr. bentsen .
to the delight of some doctors , a plan passed by the finance committee that the entire physician-reimbursement system under medicare would have overhauled dropped the bill .
to the detriment of many low-income people , also was stricken efforts medicaid funding , especially in rural areas , to boost .
so much , why was giving up senators asked `` be looking we like idiots said new mexico sen. pete domenici , the ranking republican on the senate budget committee , , .
had just gone too far things '' .
that sacrifice by every senator required the move said sen. dole .
worked it , said others , because there was no exceptions : was stricken all revenue-losing provisions .
a plan by its finance committee that the income threshold beyond which reduced their social security benefits have senior citizens would have increased also dropped the senate .
in addition , a plan permanent a 3 % excise tax on long-distance telephone calls to make dropped the bill .
a plan that what remains of the completed-contract method of accounting , which their tax burden to reduce is used by military contractors would have repealed no longer include it .
a provision that corporations excess pension funds to use health benefits to pay for current retirees would have permitted also drop it .
also stricken was a fivefold increase in the maximum occupational safety and health administration penalties , which $ 65 million would have raised in fiscal 1990 .
was excised a provision that the social security administration an independent agency would have made .
was the approval of the senate bill especially sweet for sen. mitchell , who the streamlining had proposed .
have been strained mr. mitchell 's relations with budget director darman , who pushed for to be added a capital-gains cut to the measure , since the maine democrat to bypass and deal with other lawmakers chose mr. darman earlier this year during a dispute over drug funding in the fiscal 1989 supplemental spending bill .
$ 5.3 billion in tax increases in fiscal 1990 , and $ 26 billion over five years contain the deficit reduction bill .
the revenue-raising provisions , which mostly corporations , affect would :
-- mutual funds dividends paid to them on the date that is declared the dividends rather than received , to include in their taxable income effective the day after is enacted the tax bill require .
a 50 % exclusion given to banks on the interest from loans securities to acquire for an esop , used repeal the measure if less than 30 % of the employer 's stock own the esop .
spending cuts and increases in federal fees also include the measure .
a brief freeze would impose the plan on physician fees next year .
is a similar provision in the house version .
-- authority for $ 239 million to raise the federal aviation administration by fees charging for commercial airline-landing rights at new york 's laguardia and john f. kennedy international airports , o'hare international airport in chicago and national airport in washington .
contributed john e. yang to this article .
in response to your overly optimistic , outdated piece on how long last unemployment ( people patterns , sept. 20 ) : i am in the communications field , above entry level .
was laid off i in august 1988 , and after a thorough and exhausting job search , was hired in august 1989 .
ran out my unemployment insurance before a job found i ; cutbacks and layoffs found i in many companies .
is the statistics quoted by the `` new '' census bureau report ( garnered from 1984 to 1986 ) out of date , certainly as an average for the northeast , and possibly for the rest of the country .
that to be an underlying attitude your readers to tell is all well -- do n't worry if 're getting laid off you , and if 're you unemployed , be it a seller 's market there seemed was what me bothered most about the piece think i .
a serious reality check need your paper .
is bull hn information systems inc. a u.s. majority-owned unit of cie. des machines bull .
in friday 's edition , was misstated the name of the unit .
its rating on $ 165 million of subordinated debt of this beverly hills , calif. , thrift , reduced it turmoil in the market for low-grade , high-yield securities citing said moody 's investors service .
its rating on the thrift 's subordinated debt reduced it to b-2 from ba-2 and the debt will keep under review for possible further downgrade said the agency .
is columbia savings a major holder of so-called junk bonds .
that themselves divest all thrifts of such speculative securities over a period of years require new federal legislation .
was columbia savings officials n't available for comment on the downgrade .
its rating downgraded it to b-2 from ba-3 on less than $ 20 million of this thrift 's senior subordinated notes said moody 's investors service inc. .
was franklin 's `` troubled diversification record in the securities business '' one reason for the downgrade , the troubles at its l.f. rothschild subsidiary and the possible sale of other subsidiaries citing said the rating concern .
`` concern that was getting out of all these , we perhaps had they '' said franklin president duane h. hall .
`` was it a little premature on their part think i .
safe to go back into stocks , just when seemed it another severe attack of nerves suffered wall street .
is coming another black monday do signal this ?
or is this an extraordinary buying opportunity , like to be just eventually turned out oct. 19 , 1987 , ?
say `` i 'm the only one who there would be an october massacre , said all through late august and september , '' mr. granville , once a widely followed market guru and still a well-known newsletter writer .
`` you that is this time different from 1987 , will tell everyone '' say he .
`` well , in some ways is it different , but technically is it just the same .
me to get the hell out and stay out right now be telling they .
no major support until 2200 see i .
a possibility of going to 2200 this month see i '' .
would n't even think he of buying until 52-week lows have hit at least 600 to 700 stocks say mr. granville ; new lows hit about 100 stocks friday .
say he , `` no idea what like look a massacre pattern have `` most people , '' '' .
a quantitative analyst with shearson lehman hutton inc. , clients their money to take out of the market before the 1987 crash had warned ms. garzarelli .
say she , `` was friday 's big drop , not a crash .
was this an october massacre '' like those that occurred in 1978 and 1979 .
now , as in those two years , is her stock market indicators positive .
so the damage will be short-lived and contained think she .
`` lasted those corrections one to four weeks and the market took 10%-12 % down , '' say she .
`` is this exactly the same thing , as far as be concerned i . ''
thus , say she , if dropped the dow jones industrial average below 2450 , `` it would just be a fluke .
to buy is my advice '' .
as it , calculate she now sell the average stock for about 12.5 times companies ' earnings .
could climb that ratio to 14.5 , given current interest rates , and still be within the range of `` fair value '' say she .
the start of a bear market , mark friday 's fall say mr. davis , president of ned davis research inc .
but no 1987-style crash expect he say mr. davis , is widely respected whose views by money managers , .
`` there was a unique combination in 1987 , '' say he .
`` was margin debt at a record high .
there was tremendous public enthusiasm for stock mutual funds .
was the main thing portfolio insurance , '' a mechanical trading system an investor to protect against losses intended .
was a hundred billion dollars in stock subject '' to it .
in 1987 , contributed such selling to a snowball effect .
today could even be an up day , say mr. davis , if to refrain from program trading agree major brokerage firms .
over the next several months , bad look things though , say he .
`` will be heading down the market into november , think i '' say he .
`` a year-end rally , will probably have we and then go down again .
the downturn the dow jones industrial average to carry down to around 2000 sometime next year expect he .
`` that would be a normal bear market , '' say he .
`` that 's my forecast guess i '' .
`` is going the market through another october '87 do n't think i .
'' be that the case at all , do n't think i say mr. cooperman , a partner at goldman , sachs & co. and chairman of goldman sachs asset management .
this see mr. cooperman as a good time bargains , to pick up but there be any need to rush do n't think he .
`` the market weaker to open monday , expect i but some stability then should find it '' .
several major differences between now and two years ago tick off he .
unlike 1987 , have been falling interest rates this year .
and unlike 1987 , to be in any danger of overheating do n't appear the economy .
but `` is the outlook for corporate profits n't good , '' also mean the economy 's slower growth this year say he .
`` so be it a very mixed bag . ''
thus , conclude he , `` is this not a good environment to be fully invested in stocks '' .
`` if had come i into friday on margin or with very little cash in the portfolios , any buying would not do i .
but came we into friday with a conservative portfolio , so some modest buying to do '' on behalf of clients would look i .
to look for some of the better-known companies that got clocked '' friday be going we .
`` is this the latest manifestation of the capacity of the financial community for recurrent insanity , '' say mr. galbraith , an economist .
`` this see i as a reaction to the whole junk bond explosion , '' say he .
`` a lot of insecure securities have lodged the explosion of junk bonds and takeovers in the hands of investors and the corporations that are the objects of takeovers or feared takeovers loaded with huge amounts of debt rather than equity .
both investors uneasy and the corporations more vulnerable have made this '' .
likely do n't appear a depression nevertheless , say he .
`` there is more resiliency in the economy at large than commonly suppose we , '' say he .
`` more error take now it a major depression to have than back in the thirties -- as much may try the financial community and the government '' .
that is n't totally gone takeovers say new york money manager mario gabelli , an expert at takeover candidates , spotting .
`` companies to buy around the world , is still going companies '' say he .
`` looking ford at jaguar , looking bellsouth at lin broadcasting '' is examples .
junk bonds or big bank loans them , to finance do n't require these sorts of takeovers so mr. gabelli figures will continue they .
`` was up 35 % the market since office , took -lcb- president -rcb- bush '' say mr. gabelli , so to be expected was a correction .
is another crash `` unlikely , '' think he and `` was nibbling he '' at selected stocks during friday 's plunge say .
`` is stocks that were thrown out just on an emotional basis a great opportunity -lcb- this -rcb- week for guys like me , '' say he .
`` seem it that is this the pin that the balloon , have finally pricked to me '' says mr. rogers , a professor of finance at columbia university and former co-manager of one of the most successful hedge funds in history , quantum fund .
`` economic problems , financial problems '' ahead see he for the u.s. , with a fairly strong possibility of a recession .
`` friday dollars , could n't sell you '' say he .
`` a quote , would give dealers you but the trade to make then refuse '' .
what to do today wo n't decide mr. rogers until how go the london and tokyo markets see he .
that takeover-related stocks , sell investors but hang on to some other stocks -- especially utilities , which often do well during periods of economic weakness recommend he .
the 1987 crash to have predicted now claim many people .
it actually did queens newsletter writer francis x. curzio : that was the dow jones industrial average likely about 500 points to decline the following month stated he in writing in september 1987 .
a good deal will depend what happen now on the federal reserve board say mr. curzio .
if the discount rate charge it on loans to banks , promptly cut it say he , `` things could quiet down that '' .
if not , `` could go very soon we to 2200 '' .
`` some additional amount to go down would still have stock prices before positive on stocks , become we '' say mr. terrizzi , president and managing director of renaissance investment management inc. in cincinnati .
stiff criticism drew renaissance , which about $ 1.8 billion , manages from many clients earlier this year because pulled entirely it out of stocks at the beginning of the year and a strong rally thus missed .
its money is keeping renaissance entirely in cash equivalents , primarily u.s. treasury bills .
`` probably is t-bills the right place to be , '' say he .
1 . that was your sept. 28 editorial `` kangaroo committees '' factually inaccurate and deliberately misleading .
was your editorial factually accurate and deliberately elucidative thought i .
2 . that the rights of the witnesses the fifth amendment to take supported mr. lantos .
yes , did he .
as him watched i on c-span , those lovely words about the bill of rights , which quote he from the transcript of the hearings speak him heard i .
those nice platitudes did repeat he several times as an indication of his support for the constitution .
about 56 words the witnesses ' constitutional rights defending used he .
by my rough guess , better than 5,000 words scorn heaping on the witnesses for the fifth exercising unfortunately , used he .
his praise of constitutional meat sandwiched he between large loaves of bilious commentary .
as rightly pointed out , your editorial `` is currently being held up to scorn samuel pierce , former hud secretary , and lance wilson , mr. pierce 's former aide , for the fifth amendment taking .
'' certainly is that not the supposed `` distorted reading '' indicated by mr. lantos .
3 . that `` do not deal his committee with any possible criminal activity at hud .
is we not a court fully realize my colleagues and i ... etc '' .
by any `` reasonable '' man criterion , a whole bunch of people have tried mr. lantos and his colleagues and convicted .
apparently , is in their verdict .
evidence right now be pursuing they .
be that not a bad way to proceed , just somewhat different from standard american practice .
how was referred that practice to when was i in school ?
of course , doth mr. lantos protest that information simply seek his subcommittee for legislative change .
is everything that say mr. lantos in his letter partially true .
be he right about his subcommittee 's responsibilities when come it information to obtaining from prior hud officials .
but if is his explanation of motivation true , why is so oriented his investigation as criminal activity to identify ?
no , simply wo n't wash mr. lantos 's complaints .
4 . that `` the sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public that place took while was mr. pierce secretary of hud , '' defend the journal etc. and so forth .
no , to my mind , `` sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public trust did not defend the journal ... ''
appropriate constitutional safeguards and practical common sense defended it .
is the problem , which so rightly pointed out the journal in a number of articles , not the likes of mr. lantos , after all who is really a bit player on the stage , but the attempt by congress itself to enhance into a quasi-parliamentary/judicial body .
( of course , a judiciary that the same objective seek have also got we ) .
is the system the problem , not an individual member .
slapped their hands can always have individuals .
it 's when do n't occur such slapping trouble that have got we .
by any means hud management do not defend i .
but is the kind of congressional investigation that has been pursued a far greater danger to american notions of liberty and freedom than could possibly generate any incompetency ( and , yes , maybe criminality ) within hud think i .
was the last time a similar congressional hearing saw i his work when did `` tail '' gunner joe mccarthy .
disagree i with the statement by mr. lantos that an adverse inference should not draw one against former hud officials who their fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination assert in congressional hearings .
that `` to be a witness against himself shall be compelled no person , in any criminal case , '' state the fifth amendment in relevant part .
the drawing of an adverse inference against a criminal defendant who to testify choose not preclude this privilege against self-incrimination .
in a criminal case , thus , can not comment a prosecutor on a defendant 's failure to testify nor the stand to take as a witness , him `` the fifth to take '' thus forcing can be compelled the defendant .
the defendant to protect in criminal matters only however , have been limited the privilege , in accordance with its plain language .
that `` the inference do not preclude the fifth amendment where is claimed the privilege by a party to a civil cause '' have specifically recognized the supreme court and some states .
in a civil case , to testify or the fifth , take may be forced he thus , may be called a defendant as a witness , and the drawing of an adverse inference against him in the civil matter may permit his taking of the fifth .
the fifth may take he in a civil matter if a good faith and justifiable belief that him may subject his testimony to criminal prosecution only have he .
is not based the defendant the fifth to take allowing in a civil matter on a constitutional right to testify to refuse him where harm one 's testimony in the civil matter , but because could be unconstitutionally used the testimony in the civil matter against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution .
absent the risk of such prosecution , the defendant to testify may order a court .
the fifth when asserted mr. pierce in a noncriminal proceeding , after extensive advice from legal counsel , particularly presumably receiving that a good-faith , justifiable belief that could be used his testimony against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution held he thus , must conclude one .
every right the adverse inference to draw and to concur with mr. pierce 's own belief that him convict of a crime could help his testimony have the subcommittee , congress and the american public .
was it friday the 13th , and nearly 200 points plummeted the stock market .
or is justified triskaidekaphobia -- fear of the number 13 -- ?
in academia , have been set up a so-called friday the 13th effect and shot down by different professors .
evidence that is spooked the market by friday the 13th found robert kolb and ricardo rodriguez , professors of finance at the university of miami , .
but to be jinxed by an unlucky choice of data have since been shown their study , which the 1962-85 period , spanned .
in the '70s , falls took the market nine times in a row on friday the you-know-what .
but to be a plus , not a minus , for stocks , tend the date according to yale hirsch , a collector of stock market lore .
that higher than average returns -- higher even than fridays in general , which to be strong days for stock prices tend had the 82 fridays the 13th in the 1940-1987 period found another study .
on the only other friday the 13th this year , about four points rose the dow jones industrial average .
was published tongue-in-cheek the original study , friday the 13th , part vii , titled say professor kolb .
in a similar vein , that a part , could have played too , the anniversary of the 1987 crash and saturday 's full moon in friday 's market activity add he .
reminiscent of those during the 1987 crash -- that as plummeted stock prices and escalated trading activity , unanswered went some phone calls to market makers in over-the-counter stocks .
`` dealers their phones , to answer could n't get we '' said robert king , senior vice president of otc trading at robinson-humphrey co. in atlanta .
`` was it -lcb- like -rcb- the friday before black monday '' two years ago .
whether any effect had unanswered phone calls or not , sank far less than those on the new york and american exchanges nasdaq stocks .
its biggest point decline of the year and its sixth worst ever , nonetheless , suffered the nasdaq composite index 14.90 , or 3 % , diving to 467.29 .
occurred ten points of the drop during the last 45 minutes of trading .
by comparison , 5.8 % tumbled the new york stock exchange composite friday and 4 % fell the american stock exchange composite .
on oct. 16 , 1987 , 16.18 points , or 3.8 % , fell the nasdaq composite followed three days later by its devastating 46.12-point , or 11 % slide , .
friday 167.7 million shares , totaled nasdaq volume which was only the fifth busiest day so far this year .
was set the single-day record of 288 million shares on oct. 21 ,
`` was there n't a lot of volume because was it just impossible to get moved stock , '' said e.e. `` buzzy '' geduld , president of herzog , heine , geduld , a new york company that markets make in thousands of otc issues .
was mr. king of robinson-humphrey and others quick that stemmed the problem more from traders ' inability the volume of calls , to handle rather than a deliberate attempt trades making to avoid believe they to add .
is the subject a sore one for nasdaq and its market-making companies , which was widely criticized two years ago following complaints from investors who their brokers could n't reach or trade in the chaos of the crash .
`` was it the last hour of trading on a friday declared peter dapuzzo , head of retail equity trading at shearson lehman hutton , : .
there was too many phones ringing and too many things happening market makers to be as efficient as robots to expect .
was it n't intentional , was we all busy . ''
`` was it just like two years ago said james tarantino , head of otc trading at hambrecht & quist in san francisco , , .
the same thing to do at the same time was trying everybody '' .
that every order received it executed his company by the close of trading said proudly jeremiah mullins , the otc trading chief at dean witter reynolds in new york , .
but , added he , `` one call can only take you at a time '' .
supplies of stock keep market makers on hand orderly trading to maintain when occur imbalances .
when is selling so frenzied , fall steeply and fast prices .
faced with the possibility of heavy losses on the stocks in their inventories , shares , dumping the slide in otc stock prices exacerbating two years ago , began market makers themselves .
on friday , was selling again , some market makers said traders .
but , with sagging profits on wall street since the crash , smaller share stockpiles have kept companies on hand .
fell some prices without place , taking trades as the prices at which shares would buy they dropping kept market makers said mr. tarantino of hambrecht & quist .
`` everyone else 's bid , was hitting everyone '' said he .
while losses incurred otc companies on friday , was the damage n't as bad as was it in 1987 so , said trading officials .
`` huge inventories two years ago was carrying we and was that the big culprit .
'' do n't know i of anyone big inventories carrying now , said mr. king of robinson-humphrey .
that money actually made piper jaffray on friday said tony cecin , head of equity trading at piper , jaffray & hopwood in minneapolis , .
that is his inventory a third smaller now than was two years ago , it helped it said he .
that despite the rush of selling , the situation an `` emergency '' never considered he said joseph hardiman , president of the national association of securities dealers , which the nasdaq computerized trading system , oversee .
`` was the pace of trading orderly , '' said he .
`` worked beautifully , nasdaq 's small order execution system '' as did the automated system for larger trades , according to mr. hardiman .
many investors ' confidence nevertheless , undoubtedly will shake the shock of another steep plunge in stock prices .
in the past , thrived the otc market on a firm base of small-investor participation .
because have n't returned nasdaq 's trading volume to pre-crash levels , the damage wo n't be permanent hope traders and otc market officials .
but is they worried .
`` the public 's confidence to get back , was just starting we '' lamented mr. mullins of dean witter .
more troubling is the prospect that the base of small-investor support to rebuild in the wake of the october 1987 crash was struggling the otc market could permanently erode the overall collapse in stock prices .
investor fears would allay some action from government policy makers say mr. cecin of piper jaffray .
much more wo n't take it `` the hell to scare out of retail investors , '' say he .
on friday big and small institutional investors , as well as individual investors and market makers came the sellers from all corners of the otc market -- .
but generally ranged the sell orders from 20,000 shares to 50,000 shares , compared with blocks of 500,000 shares or more two years ago said grateful traders .
stock nervously sold retail investors friday and to bargain-hunt never returned said shearson 's mr. dapuzzo .
was institutional investors , which stock had been selling throughout last week handsome gains made through the third quarter , to lock in calmer .
`` a good amount of selling from institutions , but not as much panic , had we '' said mr. dapuzzo .
`` if could n't sell they , the shares put back some of them on the shelf '' .
in addition , said he , bids some otc stocks was beaten down whose prices to buy placed some bigger institutional investors .
in addition , occasional `` waves sent computer-guided program selling of otc stocks in the russell index of 2000 small stocks and the standard & poor 's 500-stock index `` through the market said mr. dapuzzo .
was hammered nasdaq 's biggest stocks .
4.2 % , or 19.76 , tumbled the nasdaq 100 index of the largest nonfinancial issues , including the big otc technology issues , to 449.33 .
2 % , or 9.31 , dropped the nasdaq financial index of giant insurance and banking stocks to 462.98 .
only a handful of takeover-related stocks have the otc market .
but fell sharply they .
for instance , lin broadcasting as well as metromedia 's new york city cellular telephone interests , to buy and in a separate transaction , certain mccaw properties sell to contel cellular have offered mccaw cellular communications , .
8 % , or 3 1/2 , lost mccaw to 40 .
5 1/2 , or 5 % , dropped lin broadcasting , to 107 1/2 .
was the turnover in both issues roughly normal .
on a day when did n't sit well negative takeover-related news with investors , it that its previously reported $ 27.50-a-share bid the company to buy to pursue do n't plan it advised haas & partners said commercial intertech , a maker of engineered metal parts , .
6 plummeted commercial intertech to 26 .
also tumbled the issues of companies with ties to the junk bond market friday .
on the otc market , 2 slid first executive , a big buyer of the high-risk , high-yield issues , to 12 1/4 .
among other otc issues , 2 1/8 dropped intel , to 33 7/8 ; 1 1/8 lost laidlaw transportation to 19 1/2 ; was the american depositary receipts of jaguar off 1/4 to 10 1/4 ; 2 1/4 slipped mci communications to 43 1/2 ; 3 fell apple computer to 45 3/4 and 2 1/4 dropped nike to 66 3/4 .
is the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below a guide to general levels but actual transactions do n't always represent .
is the minimum unit $ 100,000 .
is these rate indications n't directly comparable ; vary widely lending practices by location .
stocks scooping up during friday 's market rout began they said pension funds , insurers and other behemoths of the investing world .
and more to buy today plan they .
the latest war to be fighting by the lesson learned they in the october 1987 crash : pays off buying at the bottom applying rightly or wrongly , appear many giant institutional investors .
to be sure , their checkbooks might put away big investors in a hurry if open sharply lower stocks today .
could still panic they and bail out of the market .
but that stocks wo n't abandon they unless far worse get conditions indicate their 1987 performance .
`` last time , got rewarded we for going out and stocks buying when was the panic the worst , '' said john w. rogers , president of chicago-based ariel capital management inc. , which $ 1.1 billion of stocks manage .
half his cash on hand spent mr. rogers for `` our favorite stocks that have fallen apart '' friday .
the rest to invest if weaken further the market expect he .
was n't daunted denver-based portfolio manager james craig $ 40 million when shaved friday 's rout from the value of the $ 752 million janus fund oversee he .
`` sure had kicked through , all the program trades to make waited i '' said he .
then jumped he into the market :
`` $ 30 million spent i in the last half-hour '' .
their wallets also opened other money managers .
`` was buying i at the close ( friday ) and 'll be buying again i because good value , be getting we know i '' said frederick a. moran , president of moran asset management inc. , greenwich , conn .
`` there is no justification on the fundamental level for this crash '' .
market storms to ride out without stock jettisoning can decide unlike mutual funds , which stockholdings to sell money , to withdraw when rush investors can be forced big investors such as pension funds and insurance companies .
just that , most often , do they because to be the best-performing long-term investment , about $ 1 trillion attracting from pension funds alone have proved stocks .
`` if bought you after the crash , did very very well you off the bottom , '' said stephen b. timbers , chief investment officer of chicago-based kemper financial services inc .
for one , $ 1 billion added two years ago the $ 56 billion california public employees retirement system , to its stock portfolio .
`` institutional investors that to be long-term holders , have they and that ca n't react they to short-term events , good or bad , taught the last crash '' said stephen l. nesbitt , senior vice president for the pension consultants wilshire associates in santa monica , calif .
`` it , regretted `` so '' those that pulled out ( of stocks ) '' said he , any significant changes 'll see you in institutional portfolios as a result of friday 's decline doubt i .
investors ahead more than 20 % , well above the annual average for stocks over several decades leave even friday 's slump .
`` 400 points could go down you and a good year in the market , still have '' said james d. awad , president of new york-based bmi capital corp .
that `` 800 or 900 points could go down the market in the next few days however , worry mr. awad , .
can happen it before can turn around you '' .
many parallels with 1987 , including the emphasis on takeover stocks and the re-emergence of computerized program trading discern he said he .
said he , `` is `` the only thing do n't have you , '' the ` portfolio insurance ' phenomenon overlaid on the rest . ''
the portfolio insurance hedging technique , which the 1987 crash to have worsened is widely thought have abandoned most institutional investors .
not really insurance , the blow of declining stock prices to soften and an offsetting profit generate by waves of s&p futures contracts selling was designed this tactic .
in its severest test , did n't work the $ 60 billion of portfolio insurance in effect in the 1987 crash , as disappeared stock buyers and disconnected became stock and futures prices .
even without portfolio insurance , was market conditions grim friday , said money managers .
was besieged he by wall street firms friday him stock to take off their hands asking said neil weisman , 85 % of its $ 220 million investment pool had converted whose new york-based chilmark capital partners to cash in recent months , .
`` calls from big block houses us asking if bids to make on anything , want we got we '' said mr. weisman , who , happy with his returns on investments chalked up earlier , the offers declined .
to stabilize in the next few days will appear stocks before declining again , more investors trapping predict mr. weisman .
`` it will be a rigor mortis rally , think i '' said he .
a reprieve for money managers them had put whose investment styles at odds with the market rally meanwhile , brought friday .
especially gleeful was the short sellers , who have been pounded by this year 's market climb .
borrowed shares , sell the shorts to profit by them replacing later at a lower price hoping .
is the nation 's largest short-selling operation feshbach brothers , palo alto , calif. , which that losses of 10 % for the year had shown up to that point its short positions said last may .
`` be we ahead for the year because of friday , '' said the firm 's kurt feshbach .
`` a killing , be not making we but had we a good day .
evidence have turned over the agency in a criminal investigation vitarine pharmaceuticals inc. concerning to the u.s. attorney 's office in baltimore said food and drug administration spokesman jeff nesbit .
have been charged neither vitarine nor any of the springfield gardens , n.y. , company 's officials or employees with any crimes .
approval a version of a blood pressure medicine to market won vitarine but that a smithkline beecham plc product substituted it as its own in tests acknowledged .
bolar pharmaceutical co. its urinary tract antibiotic to recall at the retail level have asked the fda also said mr. nesbit .
but so far have n't complied the company with that request , said the spokesman .
two strengths of its version of macrodantin to recall `` as far down as direct customers , mostly wholesalers , '' only agreed bolar , the subject of a criminal investigation by the fda and the inspector general 's office of the health and human services department , said mr. nesbit .
a voluntary recall of both its 100 milligram and 50 milligram versions of the drug earlier began bolar , of copiague , n.y. , .
evidence uncovered it presented it to the company that the brand-name product substituted bolar for its own government approval generic versions of macrodantin to sell to gain indicating have said the fda .
that the brand-name product switched it for its own in such testing have denied bolar .
the legality of a widely employed anti-takeover defense of companies in the netherlands to challenge plan the west german retailer asko deutsche kaufhaus ag .
a landmark in dutch corporate law could become the eventual court decision because the lawsuit to file plan asko would be the first the entire principle and practice of voting preferred shares issuing companies to management-controlled trusts voting power of common stockholders to dilute to challenge .
up to now have been challenged only specific aspects of these defenses , though unsuccessfully , noted asko 's dutch lawyers .
the validity of this type of defense , should uphold the courts the court such a vote-diluting maneuver recently deployed by koninklijke ahold nv to overturn will then ask asko .
reasonable grounds preferred stock to issue to a friendly trust and the worth and voting power of asko and other shareholders thus dilute had n't the dutch-based international food retailer say asko .
speaking through its dutch lawyers , a 15 % stake in ahold hold it also disclosed asko .
a 13.6 % stake that was accumulated since july held asko was previously thought it .
is his company confident of its own position and the propriety of the preferred-share issue said a spokesman for ahold .
asko 's legal actions termed he as `` unproductive '' to international cooperation among european retailers .
is chase manhattan bank chairman willard butcher a conservative banker and a loyal republican , but on friday morning few kind words had he for president bush 's economic policy-making .
`` there is some very significant issues out there , such as the fiscal deficit , the trade deficit , our relations with japan , that to be the subject of major initiatives , have '' said he in an interview .
`` that initiative , to see 'd like i and have n't i .
there is n't a big shot , an agenda '' .
190 points a few hours later , dropped the stock market .
each other to finger for the blame , although that was washington singly responsible for wall street 's woes doubt many analysts tried politicians .
but clear : wonder one thing some on wall street if is anyone in charge of economic policy make mr. butcher 's comments .
-- by 11:59 p.m. tonight , $ 16 billion of automatic , across-the-board cuts in government spending to comply with the gramm-rudman budget law must order president bush .
is the cuts necessary because agreement on a deficit-cutting bill to reach have failed congress and the administration .
`` strong leadership the deficit to reduce and tough choices , make to try simply do n't have we '' said house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) yesterday on nbc news 's `` meet the press '' .
-- for the last two weeks , have been engaged the bush administration and the federal reserve in a semi-public battle over international economic policy .
the dollar to push lower have been trying the administration ; have been resisting the fed .
`` is one of the things that me to worry continue this monetary warfare between the treasury department and the federal reserve board , '' said lawrence kudlow , a bear , stearns & co. economist , on abc 's `` this week '' .
-- confusing signals about its response to a recent spate of airline takeovers have sent out the administration .
last month , northwest airlines a stake held by klm royal dutch airlines to reduce forced transportation secretary sam skinner .
but have since run he into opposition from the treasury and the white house over that decision .
and mum on a bid for united airlines , which a big stake by british airways plc include how might affect his decision have kept he .
was uncertainty about washington 's anti-takeover policy one reason that fell through financing for the united airlines takeover -- the event that the market drop triggered say some analysts .
in many ways , is the backdrop to friday 's stock decline eerily similar to that of october 1987 's 508-point crash .
then , as now , was the budget debate behind schedule and was automatic spending cuts within days of hold taking .
was locked the treasury in a battle over international economic policy , although at that time was it with west german officials rather than the federal reserve .
and markets nervous was making concern about official actions aimed at takeovers -- then by the tax-writing house ways and means committee rather than the transportation department -- .
the reagan administration and democratic lawmakers brought the 1987 crash to the table for the first budget summit , resulting in a two-year plan the deficit to reduce by more than $ 76 billion -- though even actually rose the deficit by nearly $ 12 billion during that period .
but , barring further drops in the market this week , likely do n't seem a similar outcome this year .
that by itself , is friday 's drop , n't enough both sides a deficit-reduction agreement that would be more serious and more far-reaching than last spring 's gimmick-ridden plan , which still is n't fully implemented to reach to try to force back to the table agree lawmakers and administration officials .
that , as learned everyone in 1987 , a one-day 508-point tumble can survive the economy and the market is one of the biggest reasons that is new talks n't likely to come about .
`` thought everybody was looking we at a repetition of 1929 , that was looking we at a recession , '' said rep. panetta yesterday in an interview .
`` did not happen that .
it could survive they without much problem learned they '' .
but privately agree administration officials with mr. panetta , who `` the president and congress a much harder look at fiscal policy to take to force is going a precipitous drop this week '' said .
`` there is an underlying concern on the part of the american people -- and should be there - that have not gone far enough the administration in this deficit cutting and that congress has been unwilling what us to cut , asked the administration to cut '' said senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) .
more than friday 's 190-point decline nevertheless , clearly will take it the bitter feelings that have developed between lawmakers and white house budget director richard darman over the capital-gains fight to overcome .
is hill democrats particularly angry over mr. bush 's claim that was the capital-gains cut part of april 's budget accord and his insistence on it combining with the deficit-reduction legislation .
`` there is no prospect of any so-called grand compromise or deal next year because simply did n't live up the administration to this year 's deal , '' said senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) yesterday on cbs news 's `` face the nation '' .
during last week 's maneuverings on the deficit-cutting bill and the capital-gains issue , there was signs that was senate republicans and the administration at odds .
at the very moment a deal capital gains to exclude from the deficit-reduction legislation , that was negotiating senate republicans reporters that was it the president 's policy it to include told white house spokesman marlin fitzwater .
capital gains to strip from the legislation , when was reached an agreement it hailed oregon sen. bob packwood , the ranking gop member of the tax-writing senate finance committee , .
asked if agreed the administration , `` to speak for itself will have the adminstration '' curtly replied he : .
action on the house and senate versions of the deficit-reduction measure , reconciling a process that to begin until tomorrow at the soonest is n't expected could spur friday 's market tumble .
the hope that the lead of the senate , which on friday a variety of spending measures and tax breaks that the fiscal 1990 deficit would have increased to drop agreed would follow the house expressed senate republicans .
`` a strong signal that be we serious about deficit reduction , need the market and is the best way that to do for their bill to strip the house of representatives of similar provisions , '' said sen. warren rudman ( r. , n.h . ) yesterday .
that the fiscal 1990 shortfall would cut the house-passed deficit-reduction measure by $ 6.2 billion , almost half of the congressional budget office 's estimate of $ 11.0 billion estimated the white house office of management and budget , whether is met the gramm-rudman targets , determine whose calculations .
that omb 's figure would still be enough permanent across-the-board cuts , to avoid said rep. panetta but `` very close to the margins be getting here we '' added : .
was no one in washington willing the blame for friday 's drop in the stock market provoking to take .
but was some players quick the moment to seize .
before had set the sun on friday , a statement the drop in stock prices attributing to the senate decision action on capital gains to postpone issued richard rahn , the supply-side chief economist of the u.s. chamber of commerce , .
`` was spooked investors , who assets had been holding in anticipation of a more favorable time to sell , , '' said he .
`` there have been many preposterous reasons advanced a capital-gains tax cut , to support '' said sen. mitchell during his television appearance , `` but is that perhaps more than any of the others suggest i .
is tentatively scheduled the following u.s. treasury , corporate and municipal offerings for sale this week , according to dow jones capital markets report :
their big institutional brethren matched small investors in anxiety over the weekend , but a philosophical approach to be taking seemed most and was resigned they the latest storm in the stock market to riding out said .
`` faith in the market , be not losing i '' said boston lawyer christopher sullivan as the market plunge watched he on a big screen in front of a brokerage firm .
but be he not so sure about everyone else .
`` on monday to panic and sell , are going the small ( investors ) think i '' predicted mr. sullivan , amr corp. 's american airlines unit and several mutual funds include whose investments .
`` and to come in and buy is going institutions think i ...
to hold on be going i .
if sell now , i a big loss 'll take i '' .
an optimism that had been rewarded the market when did n't flee they in 1987 evinced some .
`` oh , it 'll be up 50 points on monday , bet i '' said lucy crump , a 78-year-old retired housewife in lexington , ky .
said mrs. crump about one-third of its value lost her ashwood investment club 's portfolio following the black monday crash , `` but '' got discouraged no one , and that gained back we -- and more .
at the annual congress of the national association of investors corp. at the hyatt regency hotel in minneapolis , was the scene calm .
was attending some 500 investors investor clubs from around the u.s. representing to slide when started the market friday .
but is planned no special bulletins or emergency meetings of the investors ' clubs said robert showalter , an official of the association , .
`` advantage to take of it , hope we '' said john snyder , a member of a los angeles investors ' club .
four stocks to buy if drop the prices to the level want he have he in mind .
is reacting so calmly , however , not everyone and wonder many about the long-term implications of what is widely viewed as the cause of friday 's slide , reluctance by banks financing to provide for a buy-out of ual corp. , parent of united airlines .
is the market drop one of `` a tremendous number of signs that is ending the leveraged take-out era said marc perkins , a tampa , fla. , investment banker , .
there be no question that there be a general distaste for leverage among lenders .
'' that could be stabilized the market if step back california investor marvin davis in to the united bidding with an offer of $ 275 a share believe however , mr. perkins , .
be she generally skittish about the stock market and the takeover activity that it to fuel seem say sara albert , a 34-year-old dallas law student , .
`` this feeling that be built it on sand , say she , that rise the market `` but '' there be no foundation to it have i '' .
most of their investments pulled out of the market she and her husband after the 1987 crash , although some texaco stock still own she .
partly because of concern about the economy and because her job as a legal assistant partly recently quit she to go to school , `` to be a lot more liquid want we think i at this point '' .
how many more of these shocks can stand the small investor wonder others .
`` all was october '87 a one-time shot , assumed we '' said san francisco attorney david greenberg .
`` the little guy told we could only happen once it in a lifetime , come on back .
now be happening again it '' .
out got mr. greenberg just before the 1987 crash and , to his regret , never went back as even soared the market .
this time be he ready to buy in `` when wear off the panic '' .
`` happen very often this kind of thing ca n't have we still , add he : .
frightened , when get the little guy hurt badly the big guys .
ca n't survive merrill lynch without the little guy '' .
have tiptoed back small investors into the market following black monday , but mostly through mutual funds .
discount brokerage customers `` have been in the market somewhat but not whole hog like was two years ago , they '' say leslie quick jr. , chairman of the quick & reilly discount brokerage firm .
schwab customers `` have been neutral to cautious recently about stocks '' say hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles scwhab corp. , .
is individual investors still angry about program trading , say mr. quackenbush .
program trading to more closely control `` the confidence of the small investor to win back '' will have government regulators say avner arbel , a cornell university finance professor , .
but be it not only the stock market that some small investors worried has .
said alan helfman , general sales manager of a chrysler dealership in houston , some joint stock investments , have he and his mother but is the overall economy his chief worry .
`` a big bath took these high rollers today , '' said he in his showroom , which is within a few miles of the multi-million dollar homes of some of houston 's richest citizens .
`` and you that to come in tomorrow and a chrysler tc by maserati buy is n't going a high roller can tell i '' .
and , finally , there was the gloaters .
`` out got i in 1987 .
everything , '' said pascal antori , an akron , ohio , plumbing contractor who chicago was visiting and stopped by fidelity investments ' lasalle street office .
`` how much would have lost i to see just stopped i by '' .
in would ever get back mr. antori ?
when come it to money : once bitten , 2,000 times shy .
is the crowded field for notebook-sized computers about a lot more crowded to become .
immediate heat to put on others in the market , especially zenith electronics corp. , the current market leader , and on a swarm of promising start-ups is expected compaq computer corp. 's long-awaited entry today into the notebook field .
a trend toward downsizing in the personal computer market extend compaq 's series of notebooks .
a notepad , called a clipboard-sized computer already have produced one manufacturer and even smaller `` palmtops '' have introduced two others .
but novelties , is still considered those machines with keyboards could love only a munchkin and screens to match .
say analysts be they faster and more memory than anything else of their size on the market carry -- and be priced aggressively they at $ 2,400 to $ 5,000 .
comes all of this in a machine that only six pounds weigh and fit comfortably into most briefcases .
in recent months , all portables that approximately the same weigh and that notebooks are called perhaps misleadingly -- have introduced compaq 's competition , including zenith , toshiba corp. , tandy corp. and nec corp. .
that is most such machines about two inches thick , noting exception take one analyst , to the name .
`` is this n't quite a notebook -- it a phonebook , call i '' say he .
ca n't be said that of the $ 2,400 notepad computer introduced a few weeks ago by grid systems corp. , a unit of tandy .
instead of a keyboard , a writing surface , an electronic pen and the ability `` block printing to read '' feature it .
at 4 1/2 pounds , may be too ambitiously named it , but the kind of marketing possibilities that froth analysts make nevertheless open up it .
is n't far behind palmtops .
introduced two months ago in europe and in the u.s. in early september , less than a pound , weigh atari corp. 's portfolio , a mere $ 400 cost and run on three aa batteries , yet the power some spreadsheets and word processing programs to run have .
is restricted its ability commonplace programs to run by a limited memory however , say some critics , .
a much more sophisticated palmtop that lotus 1-2-3 and other sophisticated software programs , can run but five times as much cost meanwhile , have introduced poquet computer corp. , .
at stake is what `` the holy grail of the computer industry '' call mike swavely , compaq 's president of north america operations , -- the search for `` a real computer in a package so small it can take everywhere you '' .
is the market so new , how big can be it know yet nobody .
`` services how big is it , to find out to sell me trying a lot of people have had i '' say tom humphries , director of marketing for grid .
`` whether be it $ 5 billion or $ 3.5 billion , matter do n't it .
be it huge . ''
the growth of portables , which 12 % of all personal computer sales now comprise consider .
the fastest-growing personal computer segment , have become laptops -- generally anything under 15 pounds -- with doubling sales this year .
use of the faster , more powerful microprocessors found in increasing numbers of desktop machines also have precluded it .
screen displays also have limited size and weight considerations .
pretty petty can get the competitive sniping at times .
for example , the atari portfolio criticize a poquet spokesman , because three batteries require it while only two need the poquet .
is dismissed both palmtops by notebook makers , who that be they too small -- a problem also encountered poquet in focus groups , admit gerry purdy , director of marketing argue .
the `` gadget '' label , to avoid trying responded poquet , with the tag line , `` the poquet pc -- a very big computer '' .
despite the sniping , few question the inevitability of the move to small machines that compromises do n't make .
toward that end , place will take the real battle between center-stage players like toshiba , zenith and now compaq say experts .
a direct threat to start-up firms like dynabook inc. , which a computer that , like compaq 's , an intel 286 microprocessor use and a hard disk drive have introduced in june is considered compaq 's new machines .
but is the dynabook product twice as heavy and costs more than compaq 's .
trouble also spell compaq 's announcement for zenith , which last year 28 % of the u.s. laptop market had but its computer business to sell to cie. des machines bull , the french government-owned computer maker recently agreed .
will vote zenith holders in december on the proposed $ 635 million sale , a price that could slip because is pegged it to zenith 's share and sales .
aim is already taking compaq at zenith 's market share .
that an `` unconventional '' two-inch floppy disk , use zenith 's $ 2,000 minisport whereas the more common 3 1/2-inch disk use compaq 's new machines note pointedly rod canion , compaq 's president and chief executive officer , .
john p. frank , president of zenith data systems , simply shrugs off such criticism , that was 3 1/2-inch floppies also `` unconventional '' five-inch disks when first replaced they noting .
`` do n't look we at it as not being a standard , look we at it as a new standard , '' argue he .
that way do n't see analysts it .
`` that 'll talk you to anyone who you is this dynamite for compaq and a stopper for everyone else , wo n't tell ca n't imagine i '' say gene talsky , president of professional marketing management inc .
adds bill lempesis , senior industry analyst for dataquest , a high-technology market research firm : `` that is these very hot products basically think we .
that they wo n't be able enough of them to make is the problem to have is going compaq '' .
the 3 1/2-inch floppy disk drive , a backlit screen that is only 1/4-inch thick and an internal expansion slot for a modem -- in other words , almost all the capabilities of a typical office machine include compaq 's machines .
undoubtedly will follow others , but at least a six-month lead on the competition have compaq believe most analysts .
for example , the t-1000 , which is in the same weight class but is much slower and less memory , have and the t-1600 , which a 286 microprocessor , also use but which almost twice as much weigh and is three times the size feature toshiba 's line of portables , .
marketed in japan , the u.s. may hit a third model , by the end of the first quarter of 1990 , but by then , say analysts , itself will have established compaq as one of three major players .
say analysts , have been burned twice international business machines corp. , in the laptop market to enter trying and no signs of to get anytime soon into notebooks trying show .
air force contracts integrated circuits for use in space to develop received honeywell inc. and international business machines corp. .
$ 69.7 million , totaled honeywell 's contract and ibm 's $ 68.8 million .
a $ 46.7 million air force contract for cable systems for the minuteman missile developing received boeing co. .
a $ 29 million air force contract for electronic-warfare training sets received general dynamics corp. .
an $ 18.1 million navy contract aircraft electronics to upgrade received grumman corp. .
an $ 11.8 million army contract for helicopter engines received avco corp. .
spain 's september consumer price index 1.1 % to shoot up from the previous month , the annual rate of inflation pushing to 6.8 % , caused sharp increases in the price of fresh produce said the national institute of statistics friday .
is the monthly increase the highest recorded in the past four years .
a base of 100 set in 1983 have the index , which 156.8 registered at the end of september , and is n't seasonally adjusted .
5.9 % have risen prices in the first nine months of the year , both the initial 3 % inflation goal set by the government of socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez and the second , revised goal of 5.8 % outstripping .
in september 3.3 % rose japan 's wholesale prices from a year earlier and was up 0.4 % from the previous month , announced the bank of japan friday .
stood the wholesale price index at 90.1 , compared with a 1985 base of 100 .
52-week highs hit twenty-four new york stock exchange issues during friday 's trading , despite the dow jones industrial average 's 190.58-point plunge .
held up relatively better than other market sectors stocks of utilities during the sell-off .
and among the issues new highs hitting was detroit edison co. and niagara mohawk power corp .
american telephone & telegraph co. , westinghouse electric corp. , exxon corp. and cigna corp. , the big insurer included other major issues highs hitting .
of course , new lows hit many more issues -- 93 -- .
international business machines corp. , which during friday 's session traded below $ 100 a share for the first time since june 1984 included these .
closed down $ 5.625 ibm at $ 102 , .
navistar international corp. , union carbide corp. and bethlehem steel corp. , are included all of which in the industrial average included other new lows .
the cascading market meanwhile , braved two initial public offerings in their maiden day of national over-the-counter trading friday .
closed up from its $ 15 offering price shares of rally 's inc. , an operator of fast-food restaurants , at $ 17 each , and closed up from its $ 12 offering price shares of employee benefit plans inc. , a health-care consultant , at $ 14.125 , .
5 % of the shares in jaguar plc acquired it said ford motor co. .
is being notified jaguar , the london stock exchange and the u.s. securities and exchange commission of the transactions , said the company .
ford that any objection to the acquisition of as much as 15 % of jaguar shares would n't raise it advised the u.s. federal trade commission last week .
that as much as 15 % of the british luxury-car maker , the maximum allowed under current united kingdom government restrictions to buy want it disclosed the no. 2 auto maker last month .
the possibility of a joint venture with jaguar had discussed it before shares buying began ford said general motors corp. .
still is talking it with jaguar about a minority interest acquiring said gm .
investors who stock bought with borrowed money -- is that , `` on margin '' -- may be more worried than most following friday 's market drop .
be that because them some shares to sell or more cash the collateral their loans backing to enhance put up can require their brokers .
in october 1987 , to have contributed to the downward spiral of the stock market was thought these margin calls .
typically , occur a margin call when fall the price of a stock below 75 % of its original value .
if the extra cash the call , to satisfy do n't put up the investor the securities liquidating may begin the brokerage firm .
but major problems as a result of margin calls do n't expect they said some big brokerage firms .
margin calls since friday `` have been higher than usual , but reasonable , '' said a spokesman for shearson lehman hutton inc. .
`` margin calls -lcb- -rcb- to be as big a factor as in 1987 do n't expect merrill lynch & co. officials '' because stock is buying fewer individual investors on margin , said a spokesman .
any immediate problems with margin calls for schwab customers did n't expect he said hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles schwab corp. , the san francisco-based discount brokerage firm , .
said he margin requirements had increased schwab `` so '' more of a cushion have customers .
`` a lesson learned we in 1987 about volatility added he : .
rival hertz corp. 's lead , following is backing out of frequent-flier programs with three airlines it said avis inc. , .
contracts with nwa inc. 's northwest airlines unit , pan am corp. 's pan american world airways unit and midway airlines wo n't renew it at the end of this year said the garden city , n.y. , car-rental company .
but involved in programs with amr corp. 's american airlines unit and delta air lines remain it .
avis 's annual cost of all five programs put industry estimates at between $ 8 million and $ 14 million .
the costs would n't specify a spokesman for avis but the three airlines being dropped account for `` far less than half of the total '' said .
both no plans suit to follow had they said budget rent a car corp. , of chicago , and national car rental systems inc. , of minneapolis , .
in fact , some benefit involved in these programs , in which frequent-flier miles earn renters and car-rental discounts can get fliers to staying saw it indicated budget .
`` budget 's programs , how can not benefit this news by hertz and avis can not see i '' said bob wilson , budget 's vice president , marketing planning .
is northwest and midway two of the five airlines with which agreements have budget .
also participate along with four other airlines , including delta and usair group inc. 's usair unit national in the northwest frequent-flier program .
that its marketing agreements would drop it at year end with delta , america west and texas air corp. 's continental airlines and eastern airlines , and that also would be ended sometime after dec. 31 pacts with american airlines , ual inc 's united airlines and usair ... a month ago , said hertz , of park ridge , n.j. , .
at the time , amounted its annual fees to those airlines to $ 20 million and that $ 15 million topped the value of redeemed awards said hertz .
was the numbers that high however , doubt analysts and competitors , .
is its frequent-flier costs `` substantially '' below avis 's level said budget .
`` their value have significantly diminished the proliferation and costs attached to -lcb- frequent-flier programs -rcb- '' said robert d. cardillo , avis vice president of marketing , , .
this year has been difficult for both hertz and avis , said charles finnie , car-rental industry analyst at alex . brown & sons .
`` their costs to get down , have been looking they and is this a fairly sensible way it , to do '' said he .
`` the pat sajak show '' is cutting down cbs inc. to one hour from its current 90 minutes .
was the move n't a setback for the program , which is the network 's first entry into the late-night talk show format since 1972 insisted cbs .
`` every intention of this the best possible show making have i and run it one hour having is the best way to it , '' said rod perth , who vice president of late night entertainment was named in august .
`` the energy level of the show will raise this '' .
action-adventure shows the sajak hour to follow to program will continue cbs .
but its four-hour `` nightwatch '' will extend cbs news by 30 minutes and begin at 1:30 a.m .
despite a promising start , finishing far below `` tonight '' on nbc , a unit of general electric co. , and `` nightline '' on abc-tv , a unit of capital cities/abc inc have slipped badly the show , in the weekly ratings as compiled by a.c. nielsen co. , .
the late-night audience further fractioning is the addition of the `` arsenio hall show , '' syndicated by paramount communications inc .
to fight with international business machines corp. for a piece of the mainframe business , preparing higher revenue and earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended sept. 30 to post expect it said tandem computers inc. , .
revenue of about $ 450 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share to report expect it said tandem .
`` a continued improvement in our u.s. business , '' reflect the results , which are in line with analysts ' estimates , said james treybig , tandem 's chief executive officer .
in the year-earlier period , net income of $ 30.1 million , or 31 cents a share , on revenue of $ 383.9 million reported tandem .
the full results for the quarter to report next week expect tandem .
that revenue of $ 430 million to $ 460 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share will report the cupertino , calif. , company have predicted analysts .
commenting on the results for the quarter , came the strength of the company 's domestic business as `` a surprise '' to him , that our plan exceeded sales `` in every region of the u.s. '' noting said mr. treybig .
was helped the company 's u.s. performance by `` a record quarter for new customers , '' said he .
`` fault-tolerant '' computers -- machines with built-in backup systems -- that stock exchanges , networks of automatic tellers and other complex computer systems run make tandem .
tomorrow its most powerful computer ever , which for the first time it will bring into direct competition with makers of mainframe computers to announce is scheduled the company .
cyclone is called tandem 's new high-end computer .
is prices for the machine , which can come in various configurations , $ 2 million to $ 10 million .
the new computer a hefty slice of business to wrest away from ibm , the longtime leader in mainframes expect analysts .
`` perhaps two to three billion dollars could siphon they from ibm over the next few years , believe we '' said george weiss , an analyst at the gartner group .
tandem 's growth will spur that .
`` i 'd be disappointed if grew the company by less than 20 % next year , '' said john levinson , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co .
to respond to tandem 's cyclone by its own mainframes , discounting is expected ibm which are roughly three times the price of a comparable system from tandem say analysts .
`` bigger discounts obviously can give immediately , ibm to users '' said mr. weiss .
but mr. treybig questions whether that will be enough tandem 's first mainframe to stop from some of the functions that previously sought large organizations from big blue 's machines taking on .
`` is the answer n't price reductions , but new systems , '' said he .
a variety of challenges , the biggest being that the company 's computers generally view customers as complementary to ibm 's mainframes nevertheless , face tandem .
is even mr. treybig reluctant this notion , to abandon that is tandem 's new machines n't replacements for ibm 's mainframes insisting .
`` be we after a little bigger niche , '' said he .
to be good news for the economy may turn out the stock market 's swoon .
in one wild hour of trading , what to do , have been trying unsuccessfully , the bush administration for weeks to accomplish managed the market .
the federal reserve its grip on credit to ease is forcing it and the wind took out of a previously irrepressible dollar it .
american business -- indeed , the entire economy could reinvigorate the resulting decline in interest rates and the value of the dollar .
strangely optimistic may sound this .
after all , until a few years ago , was viewed the stock market as a barometer of the national economy .
when went down , it by all tradition , followed the economy .
have changed that , partly because the two years following the worst stock-market plunge in history have been reasonably comfortable .
was the 1987 crash `` a false alarm it , however view you '' say university of chicago economist victor zarnowitz .
increasingly disconnected from the rest of the nation seem the market .
ca n't be traced its spasms to fundamental business conditions , nor major shifts in the economy to presage do appear they .
`` a life of its own , have the market today '' said john akers , chairman of international business machines corp. , saturday .
`` there be nothing rational about this kind of action '' .
of course , will be threatened the health of the economy if to dive continue the market this week .
consumer wealth , do reduce sharply falling stock prices business confidence damage and the foreign investors upon whom now rely the u.s. for financial sustenance discourage .
was battered the financial-services industry by the 1987 crash .
what 's more , although is the stock market far less overvalued today than two years ago , is the u.s. economy weaker .
is growth slower .
is profits softer .
is debt burdens heavier .
but if to plummet , do n't continue the stock market may well dominate the beneficial effects of lower interest rates and a lower dollar .
money to pour into the economy if the markets to soothe needed is now poised the fed , which until friday moves credit , to ease had been resisting .
that a fundamental change in their interest-rate policies do n't necessarily mean this may protest fed officials .
but is the fed likely short-term interest rates to bring down in its effort markets to calm suggest the experience of the 1987 crash .
the fed 's move , anticipating a key interest rate known as the federal funds rate lowered down from 8.820 % the day before money traders to 8.625 % late friday , .
is tiny movements in the rate , which what each other charge banks for overnight loans , is usually among the few visible tracks that leave the fed on the monetary markets .
to decline also began the dollar friday as some investors their desire to invest in the u.s. to reassess caused the stock market 's plunge .
that the export boom that manufacturers have sustained for several years to extinguish threatening was out of whack with economic fundamentals , the dollar 's strength have been arguing treasury officials for months .
foreign investors that was the treasury right about the overpriced dollar have now apparently convinced the market drop .
would be welcomed a modest drop in the dollar -- only a modest one , you mind -- by the u.s. .
was that n't the case in 1987 , when was the dollar so weak that that panic among foreign investors producing and the flow of foreign capital to the u.s. diminishing might collapse it , seriously worried some economists and government officials .
is another big difference between 1987 and 1989 n't so comforting .
in the third quarter of 1987 , spurted the economy at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 5.3 % .
that a much more sluggish 2.3 % grew it in the third quarter of 1989 , which ended two weeks ago is the consensus among economists .
`` is happening the plunge in stock prices at a time when have already slowed down , the economy '' say economist lawrence chimerine of wefa group , a bala cynwyd , pa. , forecasting company .
`` is gone a lot of pent-up demand '' .
did drop consumer spending in the months following black monday 1987 -- `` but only slightly and for a short period of time , '' recall mr. zarnowitz , a longtime student of business cycles .
`` was offset that by strength elsewhere .
-lcb- -rcb- was the effects much less severe and less prolonged than had feared some or expected .
'' today , fret he , exports and business investment spending may be insufficient the slack to pick up if sink stock prices this week and if retrench consumers in reaction .
what 's more , have n't abated the corporate borrowing binge in the past two years .
`` two more years of significant accumulation of debt have had we ... just at the time when is being squeezed earnings , '' note mr. chimerine .
the more rely a company on borrowed money , the greater its sensitivity to an economic slowdown .
an unanticipated storm can withstand a company with a strong balance sheet ; may end up a highly leveraged company in bankruptcy court .
of course , that know very well the fed , -- hence its readiness credit to pump into the economy this morning .
but , in the process , inflation reigniting risk the fed .
even before friday 's events , that the fed wo n't be able to live up to its tough words on inflation eliminating because of its responsibility fragile financial markets , banks and highly leveraged corporations to protect was arguing harvard university economist benjamin friedman .
is the biggest threat on the economic horizon right now n't recession , reason he ; be it an outbreak of uncontrolled inflation .
in the end , suggested the 1987 collapse , do n't move the economy in lockstep with stock prices .
do , however , depend the economy on the confidence of businesses , consumers and foreign investors .
confidence do n't exactly inspire a panic on wall street .
that was consumer confidence high before friday suggested surveys .
is a 190-point drop n't likely much of a dent to make ; that multiply a few times over , though , and it will .
if is the reactions of executives gathered saturday at hot springs , va. , for the business council meetings typical , was n't overly rattled business leaders by friday 's decline .
and if a tad more cautious become foreign investors -- that it can stand the u.s. well , suggest the dollar 's recent strength .
on the bottom line , that we 've been through this before is the most comforting fact for the economic outlook .
two years ago , was about the only point of comparison the 1929 crash and the subsequent depression .
a receptive audience had the doomsayers .
a more optimistic view permit the prosperity that followed black monday today .
at the very least , comfort is taking the establishment here from the nation 's success in the last go-around handling .
as observed sen. lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) yesterday , `` a meltdown avoided the fed last time .
is they more sophisticated this time .
that eroded profits in the third quarter because of skidding prices in the commodity end of the business to report is expected the chemical industry .
sharp inventory cutting by buyers have seen producers of commodity chemicals , the basic chemicals produced in huge volumes for other manufacturers , .
once the chief beneficiaries of the industry 's now fading boom , also will be reporting these producers against exceptionally strong performances in the 1988 third quarter .
`` for some of these companies , this will be the first quarter with year-to-year negative comparisons , '' say leonard bogner , a chemical industry analyst at prudential bache research .
perhaps most prominent , that decreased profit in the latest quarter from a year earlier , if only by a shade to report is expected dow chemical co. , which as of midyear eight consecutive record quarters , had racked up .
though have aggressively diversified dow into specialty chemicals and pharmaceuticals , a big stake in polyethylene , which is used in packaging and housewares still have the company .
is analysts ' third-quarter estimates for the midland , mich. , company between $ 3.20 a share and $ 3.30 a share , compared with $ 3.36 a year ago , when was profit $ 632 million on sales of $ 4.15 billion .
to comment on the estimates declined a dow spokeswoman .
at the investment firm of smith barney , harris upham & co. , overall profit for 20 companies representative of the whole industry pulling down by 8 % to 10 % is seen the commodity-chemical segment .
`` the commodities off more than the others and the diversified companies about even or slightly better , will find you '' say james wilbur , a smith barney analyst .
that lower profit will report 10 of the 15 companies follow it project first boston corp. .
continuing gains , to report still , is expected some industry giants largely because is so much of their business outside commodity chemicals .
steady profit growth in white pigments , fibers and polymers to have had is thought du pont co. .
moreover , is helped the wilmington , del. , company when weaken prices on the commodity chemicals buy it for its own production needs , such as ethylene .
is divided analysts over whether much of a gain in the latest quarter from its conoco inc. oil company will report du pont .
in the 1988 third quarter , $ 461 million , or $ 1.91 a share , earned the company on sales of $ 7.99 billion .
to comment declined du pont .
higher profit , reporting to continue too , is expected monsanto co. , though even was hurt its sales of crop chemicals in the latest quarter by drought in northern europe and the western u.s. .
that is narrowing losses in its g.d. searle & co. pharmaceutical business to report again is expected the st. louis-based company .
to operate in the red continued searle through the first half of the year , but searle a profit for all of 1989 to post expect it have said monsanto .
run most estimates for monsanto between $ 1.70 and $ 2 a share .
third-quarter profit of $ 116 million , or $ 1.67 a share , on sales of $ 2.02 billion a year ago , posted the company .
to comment declined monsanto .
but is caught the commodity-chemical producers on the downside of a pricing cycle .
by some accounts on wall street and in the industry , is the inventory reductions near an end , which firmer demand may presage .
but pressure could keep growing production capacity on prices into the early 1990s say doubters .
in the latest quarter , to fall sharply at least , is expected profit .
for himont inc. , `` how far down is it , do n't know we , '' say leslie ravitz at salomon brothers .
is the projections in the neighborhood of 50 cents a share to 75 cents , compared with a restated $ 1.65 a share a year earlier , when was profit $ 107.8 million on sales of $ 435.5 million .
lower prices for its mainstay product , polypropylene , face himont while go forward it with a heavy capital investment program its raw material supply to bolster and new uses for polypropylene , the packaging and automobile industries include whose markets develop .
is the company , based in wilmington , del. , 81%-owned by montedison s.p . a. , milan , which an offer outstanding for the himont shares do n't already own it have .
at quantum chemical corp. , new york , is the trouble lower prices for polyethylene , higher debt costs and the idling of an important plant due to an explosion .
their estimates for quantum , hedge some analysts because is n't known it certain one-time charges when will book the company .
but range the estimates from break-even to 35 cents a share .
in the 1988 third quarter , $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , earned quantum on sales of $ 724.4 million .
profit of between $ 1 a share and $ 1.25 , compared with $ 1.56 a share a year earlier , $ 213 million when earned the company on sales of $ 2.11 billion to post is expected another big polyethylene producer , union carbide corp. , .
all to comment declined himont , quantum and union carbide .
was priced the issue , which is puttable back to the company at par on oct. 15 , 1999 , at a spread of 50 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
single-a-1 rated by moody 's investors service inc. and single-a by standard & poor 's corp. , will be sold the non-callable issue through underwriters led by merrill lynch capital markets .
was priced the non-callable issue , which can be put back to the company in 1999 , at 99 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
baa-1 rated by moody 's and triple-b-plus by s&p , will be sold the issue through underwriters led by morgan stanley & co .
backed by freddie mac 8 1/2 % securities with a weighted average remaining term to maturity of 28.4 years , was priced the offering , series 102 , before the market 's afternoon surge .
among classes for which was details available , ranged yields from 8.78 % , or 75 basis points over two-year treasury securities , to 10.05 % , or 200 basis points over 10-year treasurys .
is backed the offering , series 101 , by freddie mac 9 1/2 % securities .
was pricing details n't immediately available .
collateralized the agency 's first strips issue , by freddie mac 8 % securities pooled into a single security a giant , called will be divided into interest-only and principal-only securities .
is being sold the collateral by a thrift institution .
will be repackaged the principal-only securities into a freddie mac remic , series 103 , that six classes will have by bt securities .
will be sold separately the interest-only securities by bt securities .
the principal pay the principal-only securities from the underlying freddie mac 8 % securities , while only interest pay the interest-only securities .
8.45 % , to yield was priced the principal-only securities at 58 1/4 said freddie mac assuming an average life of eight years and a prepayment of 160 % of the psa model .
10.72 % to yield was priced the interest-only securities at 35 1/2 .
there was no major eurobond or foreign bond offerings in europe friday .
