influential members of the house ways and means committee introduced legislation that would restrict the new savings-and-loan bailout agency how can raise capital , creating another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts .
the bill , whose backers include chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill. ) , would prevent the resolution trust corp. from raising temporary working capital by having an rtc-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget .
the bill intend to restrict the rtc to treasury borrowings only , unless the agency receive specific congressional authorization .
rep. fortney stark ( d. , calif. ) , the bill 's chief sponsor said `` such agency ` self-help ' borrowing is unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct treasury borrowing , '' .
the complex financing plan in the s&l bailout law include raising $ 30 billion from debt issued by the newly created rtc .
this financing system was created in the new law in order to keep the bailout spending from swelling the budget deficit .
another $ 20 billion through treasury bonds , which pay lower interest rates would be raised .
but the rtc also require `` working '' capital to maintain the bad assets of thrifts that is sold , until the assets can be sold separately .
that debt would be paid off leaving the total spending for the bailout at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years as the assets is sold , .
`` it be a problem that clearly have to be resolved , '' david cooke , executive director of the rtc said .
the agency have already spent roughly $ 19 billion selling 34 insolvent s&ls , and it is likely to sell 600 or merge by the time the bailout conclude .
absent other working capital , he said , the rtc would be forced to delay other thrift resolutions until cash could be raised by selling the bad assets .
he said `` we would have to wait until we have collected on those assets before we can move forward , '' .
the complicated language in the huge new law have muddied the fight .
the law do allow the rtc to borrow up to $ 5 billion from the treasury at any time .
it moreover , say the rtc 's total obligations may not exceed $ 50 billion , but that figure is derived after including notes and other debt , and subtracting the market value of the assets the rtc hold from it .
opponents of the rtc 's working-capital plan , say but congress did n't anticipate more public debt , or intend and rep. charles schumer ( d. , n.y . ) said the rtc oversight board has been remiss in not keeping congress informed .
he said `` that secrecy lead to a proposal like the one from ways and means , which seems sort of draconian , to me '' .
`` the rtc is going to have to pay a price of prior consultation on the hill if they want that kind of flexibility '' .
the ways and means committee will hold a hearing on the bill next tuesday .
we 're about to see if advertising work .
a few big brokerage firms hard on the heels of friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that be followed , is rolling out new ads trumpeting a familiar message : keep on investing , the market be just fine .
their mission is to keep clients from fleeing the market , as individual investors did in droves after the crash in october
just days after the 1987 crash , major brokerage firms rushed out ads to calm investors .
this time around , they be moving even faster .
painewebber inc. filmed a new television commercial at 4 p.m. edt yesterday and had it on the air by last night .
fidelity investments placed new ads in newspapers yesterday , and wrote another new ad appearing today .
by yesterday afternoon shearson lehman hutton inc. had already written new tv ads .
it considered running them during tomorrow night 's world series broadcast but decided not to the market when recovered yesterday .
other brokerage firms , including merrill lynch & co. , was plotting out potential new ad strategies .
the brokerage firms learned a lesson the last time around , frightened investors when flooded the phone lines and fled the market in a panic .
this time , the firms was ready .
for example , fidelity , prepared several months ago ads in case of a market plunge .
the market when went into its free fall friday afternoon , the investment firm ordered full pages in the monday editions of half a dozen newspapers .
the ads touted fidelity 's automated 800-number beneath the huge headline , `` fidelity is ready for your call '' .
a fidelity spokesman say the 800-line , which already was operating but which about , many clients did n't know received about double the usual volume of calls over the weekend .
he say `` a lot of investor confidence come from the fact that they can speak to us , '' .
we had to think ahead of time about it '' .
today 's fidelity ad go a step further , encouraging investors to stay in the market or even to plunge in with fidelity .
underneath the headline `` diversification , '' it counsel `` based on the events of the past week , all investors need to know their portfolios is balanced to help protect them against the market 's volatility '' , .
it go on to plug a few diversified fidelity funds by name .
also painewebber was able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash .
in the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , the brokerage firm began taping in-house , commercials ultimately getting down fast enough to tape a commercial after the market closed and rush it on the air that night its timing .
it also negotiated an arrangement with cable news network under which cnn would agree to air its last-minute creations .
the new painewebber commercial , created with ad agency saatchi & saatchi co. , feature mary farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , sounding particularly bullish .
taped as the market just closed yesterday , it offer ms. farrell advising , `` we view here the market as going through a relatively normal cycle ... .
we continue to feel that the stock market is still the place to be for long-term appreciation '' .
the spot was scheduled to appear three times on cnn last night .
painewebber considered an even harder sell , recommending specific stocks .
it instead , settled on just urging the clients who are its lifeline to keep that money in the market .
john lampe , painewebber 's director of advertising say `` we be saying the worst thing anyone can do that is to see the market go down which just drive down further , the prices and dump everything , '' .
`` if you owned it and liked it friday , the true value have n't changed '' .
he add `` this is n't 1987 revisited '' , .
with the market fluctuating and then closing up more than 88 points yesterday , investment firms had to constantly revise their approach .
at shearson lehman , executives created potential new commercials friday night and throughout the weekend , then had to regroup yesterday afternoon .
the plan had been to make one of shearson 's easy-to-film , black-and-white `` we where stand '' commercials , which have been running occasionally in response to news events since 1985 .
the ad would have run during the world series tomorrow , replacing the debut commercial of shearson 's new ad campaign , `` leadership by example '' .
but in a meeting after the market closed yesterday , shearson executives decided not to go ahead with the stock-market ad .
`` we do n't think anything need to be said at this point .
'' cathleen b. stewart , executive vice president of marketing say the market seem to be straightening out ; we be taking a wait-and-see attitude , .
in any case , the brokerage firms is clearly moving faster to create new ads than they did in the fall of 1987 .
but it remain to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective .
in 1987 , despite a barrage of ads from most of the major investment firms , individuals ran en masse from the market .
the firms now must try their hardest to prove that advertising can work this time around .
edward eskandarian , former chairman of della femina , mcnamee wcrs/boston , reached an agreement in principle to acquire a majority stake in arnold advertising , a small boston shop .
terms was n't disclosed .
mr. eskandarian , who resigned his della femina post in september , become chairman and chief executive of arnold .
john verret , the agency 's president and chief executive , will retain the title of president .
mcdonald 's corp. , oak brook , ill. , separately , named arnold to handle its estimated $ 4 million cooperative ad account for the hartford , conn. , area .
that account had been handled by della femina , mcnamee wcrs .
a 142-page ad supplement to business week 's special `` corporate '' elite issue call to use their clout to help solve the nation 's education crisis on business leaders .
the supplement , the largest ever for the magazine , include ads from 52 corporate advertisers and kicks off a two-year business week initiative on education .
the magazine will distribute 10 % of the gross revenues from the supplement as grants to innovative teachers .
it be what 1 ) explain why we is like , well , ourselves rather than bo jackson ; 2 ) cautions that it be possible in a lake that average two feet deep to drown ; and 3 ) predicts that 10,000 monkeys placed before 10,000 pianos would produce 1,118 publishable rock 'n' roll tunes .
baseball , that game of the long haul , is the quintessential sport of the mean , and the mean ol' law caught up with the san francisco giants in the world series last weekend .
the team that dumped runs by the bushel on the chicago cubs in the national league playoffs was held to just one in two games by the home-team oakland a 's , the gang that had been done similarly unto by the los angeles dodgers and orel hershiser in last year 's tournament .
much of the damage by a 's who had some catching up to do morever , was accomplished .
in game two , on a cool sunday evening in this land of perpetual autumn , a lot of the catching up was done by the a 's catcher , terry steinbach .
he hit a 2-0 pitch from rick reuschel into the left-field stands in inning four to stretch his team 's lead from 2-1 to a decisive 5-1 , it where stayed .
so what if steinbach had struck just seven home runs in 130 regular-season games , and batted in the seventh position of the a 's lineup .
he later remarked `` if you get your pitch , and take a good swing , anything can happen , '' .
mark mcgwire , the big , red-haired oakland first baseman , had three hits two more than he 'd had in the five-game dodger series in which he 'd gone 1-for-17 in four at bats , .
the a-men batting nos. 6 through 9 , a.k.a. the `` bottom of the order , '' got seven of their team 's 11 hits and scored four of its runs in a 5-0 decision .
right-hander dave stewart held the giants to five hits to account for the zero on the other side of the saturday ledger .
that he was the a 's winningest pitcher during its american league campaign with a 21-9 mark , plus two wins over toronto in the playoffs , indicates he may have some evening up coming , but with the way his split-fingered fastball is behaving , that might not be this week .
the same goes for mike moore , another veteran who overcame early struggles to permit but a run and four hits the giants in seven innings in sunday 's contest .
giant manager roger craig marveled `` every guy they put out there had a better split-finger than the guy before , '' .
he be an ex-hurler who 's one of the leading gurus of the fashionable delivery , which look like a fastball until it dive beneath the lunging bat .
the upshot of the downshoot is that the a 's go up two games to none in the best-of-seven fest into san francisco 's candlestick park tonight .
the stat to reckon here with say that about three of four clubs ( 29 of 39 ) that took 2-0 series leads went on to win it all .
that be not an average to soothe giant rooters .
one might think that the home fans in this series of the subway called bart ( that be a better name for a public conveyance than `` desire , '' you do n't think ? ) would have been ecstatic over the proceedings , but they observe them in relative calm .
partisans of the two combatants sat side by side in the 49,000-plus seats of oakland coliseum , and while they cheered their favorites and booed the opposition , hostilities advanced no further , at least as far as i could see .
a few folks even showed up wearing caps bearing the colors and emblems of both teams .
`` i 'm for the giants today , but because they only lost yesterday .
i love 'em both .
'' david williams , a sacramento septuagenarian , said the only thing i be rooting for is for the series to go seven games , at the coliseum before sunday 's go .
i choose to believe it be the latter , although it probably spring from the fact that just about everyone out here , including the a 's and giants , is originally from somewhere else .
suffice it to say that if this was a new york yankees-mets series , or one between the chicago cubs and white sox ( hey , it be possible ) , you 'd need uniformed police in every other seat to separate opposing fans , and only the suicidal would bifurcate their bonnets .
the a 's anyway , gave a lot of heroes to root for you .
in the opening game , besides steinbach and stewart , walt weiss , a twiggy-looking , second-year shortstop who had lost a couple months of the season to knee surgery there was .
he was flawless afield ( ditto in game two ) , moved along a runner in the a 's three-run second inning , and homered for his team 's final tally .
such his reputation among the east bay bashers is that he when hit his first career home run last season , the fan who caught it agreed to turn over the ball to him in return for an autograph .
an a 's co-hero of the second game was rickey henderson , who exemplify the hot side of the hot-cold equation .
he smoked toronto in the playoffs with six hits , seven walks and eight stolen bases in 22 at bats , and continued that by going 3-for-3 at the plate sunday , along with walking , stealing a base and scoring a run .
he lectured `` when you 're in the groove , you see tremendously , every ball '' .
the cold guys in the set was will clark , kevin mitchell and matt williams , the giants ' 3-4-5 hitters .
they combined for 25 hits , six home runs and 24 runs batted in in the five games against the cubs .
they went here , a collective 5-for-24 with zero homers and ribbies .
san francisco batting coach dusty baker declared `` i believe in the law of averages , '' after game two .
`` i 'd rather see a so-so hitter who 's hot come up for the other side than a good hitter who 's cold '' .
but the old dodger slugger wisely offered no prediction about good times when would return to his side .
he said `` it when go , you never know you when 'll get back , it '' .
`` that be baseball .
ncr corp. reported a 10 % drop in third-quarter net income , citing intense competition that caused its gross profit margins to dip .
net income for the quarter fell roughly what analysts had expected to $ 93.1 million from $ 103.1 million , .
but per-share profit dropped only 2 % to $ 1.23 a share from $ 1.26 a share , as the company continued its stock buy-back plan .
average shares outstanding dropped to 75.8 million from 82.1 million .
revenue fell 1 % to $ 1.39 billion from $ 1.41 billion .
the computer maker , which sell more than half its goods outside the u.s. , also said `` the negative effect of a stronger u.s. dollar will adversely affect its fourth-quarter performance '' and `` make difficult it to better 1988 results '' .
ncr said revenue declined reflecting a world-wide softening of the computer markets both in the u.s. and overseas , .
the company , however , said orders in the u.s. showed `` good gains '' during the latest quarter .
analysts estimate those gains at 12 % to 13 % , a good part of it coming from large orders placed by a few of ncr 's major customers .
sanjiv g. hingorani , an analyst for salomon brothers inc note in addition to a general slowing of the computer industry , ncr , which sell automated teller machines and computerized cash registers , is also affected by the retail and financial sectors , `` areas of the economy that have generally not been robust , '' .
ncr said these factors , combined with a strong dollar , should negatively affect the current quarter 's results , .
in the year-earlier fourth quarter , ncr had profit of $ 149.6 million , or $ 1.85 a share , on revenue of $ 1.8 billion .
mr. hingorani said he lowered his full-year estimates for 1989 to $ 5.35 a share from $ 5.50 a share .
revenue projections was slashed to $ 6.03 billion from $ 6.20 billion .
last year , ncr had net income of $ 439.3 million , or $ 5.33 a share , on $ 5.99 billion in revenue .
for the nine months , the company 's earnings fell 9 % to $ 264.6 million , or $ 3.40 a share , from $ 289.7 million , or $ 3.49 a share .
revenues declined 1 % to $ 4.17 billion from $ 4.19 billion .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , ncr shares fell 75 cents to close at $ 57 .
concerning your sept. 19 article `` wall street firms link analysts ' pay to performance , '' i be delighted that wall street is finally tuning in to the hard , cold facts of the real working world .
if the firms is serious , however , why limit the practice to the poor , maligned analysts whose ability to see into the future is fragile at best ?
why not extend the same harsh standards to the sales force , and pay a base salary with annual bonus based on they made how much money for their clients during the year brokers ?
that should stop a lot of account-churning , and produce a stock market driven only by professional concern , careful thought and good sense .
steve clark , a shearson lehman hutton inc. trader , reported for work at 5 a.m. , two and a half hours before the usual monday morning strategy meeting .
at jefferies & co. , j. francis palamara did n't reach the office until 5:30 a.m. , but then he had been up most of the night at home .
he said `` i had all night long calls from the states , '' .
`` i was woken up every hour -- 1:30 , 2:30 , 3:30 , 4:30 .
people is looking for possible opportunities to buy , but nobody want to stick out their chin '' .
for many of london 's securities traders , it was a day that started nervously in the small hours .
by lunchtime , the selling was at near-panic fever .
but as the day ended in a frantic wall street-inspired rally , the city breathed a sigh of relief .
so it went yesterday in the trading rooms of london 's financial district .
in the wake of wall street 's plunge last friday , the london market was considered especially vulnerable .
and before the opening of trading here yesterday , all eyes was on early trading in tokyo for a clue as how widespread the fallout to might be .
by the time trading officially got under way at 9 a.m. , the news from asia was in .
and it left mixed signals for london .
tokyo stocks closed off a significant but less-than-alarming 1.8 % on thin volume ; hong kong stocks declined 6.5 % in orderly trading .
at jefferies ' trading room on finsbury circus , a stately circle at the edge of the financial district , desktop computer screens displayed the london market 's major barometer -- the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index .
red figures on the screens indicated falling stocks ; blue figures , rising stocks .
the reds right away , outnumbered 80 to 20 , the blues , as the index opened off 157.1 points , or 7 % at 2076.8 , .
mr. palamara , a big , good-humored new york native who run the 15-trader office said `` i see concern , but i do n't see any panic , '' .
the jefferies office , a branch of the los angeles-based firm , played conservatively , it seeking to avoid risk .
david smith , who head trading in all non-u.s. stocks said `` this is not the sort of market to have a big position in , '' .
`` we tend to run a very tight book '' .
jefferies spent most of its energies trying to match buyers and sellers , in the morning and many buyers there was n't .
mr. smith said `` all the takeover stocks -- scottish & newcastle , b.a.t , drg -- is getting pretty well pasted this morning , '' .
a 7,500-share `` sell '' order for scottish & newcastle seconds later , came in .
for the third time in 15 minutes , a trader next to mr. smith left the no-smoking area to have a cigarette .
on the screens , only two forlorn blue figures remained , but the index had recovered a few points and was off about 140 .
mr. smith said `` because tokyo did n't collapse , let 's pick up a little stock , '' .
he targeted 7,500 shares of reuters and punched a button to call up other dealers ' price quotes on his screen .
the vivid yellow figures showed the best price at 845 pence , ( $ 13.27 ) and mr. smith 's traders started putting out feelers .
but the market sensed a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling , and the quotes immediately jumped to 850 pence .
mr. smith said `` i when want to buy , they run from you -- they keep changing their prices , '' .
`` it be very frustrating . ''
he temporarily abandoned his search for the reuters shares .
by this time , it was 4:30 a.m. in new york , and mr. smith fielded a call from a new york customer wanting an opinion on the british stock market , which had been having troubles of its own even before friday 's new york market break .
`` fundamentally dangerous ... , '' mr. smith said , almost in a whisper , `` ... . fundamentally weak ... fairly vulnerable still ... extremely dangerously poised ...
we be in for a lot of turbulence ... . ''
he was right .
by midday , the london market was in full retreat .
danny linger , a pit trader who was standing outside the london international financial futures exchange said `` it be falling like a stone , '' .
only half the usual lunchtime crowd gathered at the tony corney & barrow wine bar on old broad street nearby .
conversation was subdued as most patrons watched the latest market statistics on television .
at 12:49 p.m. , the index hit its low , 2029.7 , off 204.2 points .
mr. clark , the shearson trader , said early in the afternoon `` france opened down , the limit off at least 10 % if you could calculate the index , which you could n't , '' .
`` spain is down 10 % and suspended , sweden be down 8 % , norway 11 % .
this market have been very badly damaged '' .
as 2:30 p.m. -- wall street 's opening time -- neared , shearson traders and salesmen traded bets on the new york market how low would open .
in the center of the trading floor , chief trader roger streeter and two colleagues scrambled as soon as the new york market opened -- plummeting more than 60 points in the first few minutes for the telephones .
they saw an opportunity created by the sell-off .
as wall street traders dumped american depositary receipts in jaguar plc , mr. streeter and trader sam ruiz bought them to resell in the u.k .
investors here still expect ford motor co. or general motors corp. to bid for jaguar .
after about 45 minutes , the u.s. markets suddenly , rallied .
one trader shouted `` the mmi have gone better , '' at about 3:15 london time , as the u.s. major markets index contract suddenly indicated a turnabout .
as wall street strengthened , the london trading room went wild .
traders shouted as their screens posted an ever-narrowing loss on wall street .
wall street then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day .
`` rally ! rally ! rally ! '' shearson trader andy rosen , shouted selling more jaguar shares .
`` this is panic buying ! ''
as the london market rallied , some wondered whether the weekend of worrying and jitters had been worth it .
the london index closed off 70.5 , or about 3.3 % at 2163.4 , its high for the day , .
ambassador paul nitze 's statement ( notable & quotable , sept. 20 ) , `` if you have a million people working for you , every bad thing that have one chance in a million of going wrong will go wrong at least once a year , '' is a pretty negative way of looking at things .
is n't it just as fair to say that if you have a million people working for you , every good thing that have one chance in a million of going right will go right at least once a year ?
the house aviation subcommittee approved a bill that would give authority to review leveraged buy-outs of major u.s. airlines and approve the transportation secretary .
the collapsed plan to acquire ual corp. , parent of united airlines , spurred quick action on the legislation , introduced wednesday and approved by the subcommittee on a voice vote yesterday .
the bill is expected to be taken up by the public works and transportation committee tomorrow , and a floor vote by next week will be urged .
the measure drew criticism from the bush administration and a parting shot from financier donald trump , who yesterday withdrew his takeover bid for amr corp. , the parent of american airlines .
in a letter to subcommittee chairman james oberstar ( d. , minn. ) , mr. trump criticized the bill as an explicit effort to thwart his bid for amr , and said it contributed to the collapse of the deal .
elaine chao , deputy transportation secretary , also sent a letter to express the administration 's opposition to the bill `` in its present form '' .
rep. oberstar brushed off mr. trump 's allegations as an `` excuse for his own deal failing '' .
he also said the fact that the other letter had n't come from transportation secretary samuel skinner indicated `` wiggle room '' there is in the administration 's position .
mr. oberstar and other committee members repeatedly stressed that the legislation was n't a response to any particular market situation .
but they cited the ual and amr examples as reasons to move quickly to enact this legislation .
aides both in the house and senate said the withdrawal of the trump bid for amr is n't likely to deflate efforts to push the legislation .
one senate aide said `` it be still on the fast track and we still want to do it , '' .
the bill is aimed at addressing the concern that an airline might sacrifice costly safety measures to pay off the debt incurred in a leveraged buy-out .
the transportation secretary currently , do n't have clearly established authority to block mergers , but can take the drastic step of revoking the operating certificate of any carrier the official consider unfit .
supporters of the legislation view the bill as an effort to add stability and certainty to the airline-acquisition process , and to preserve the safety and fitness of the industry .
in general , the bill would give a 30-day review period the transportation department before 15 % or more of the voting stock of a major u.s. air carrier could be acquired .
it also would require the acquiring party to notify the transportation secretary and to provide all information relevant to determining the intent of the acquisition .
the bill would allow the secretary to reject a buy-out if sufficient information have n't been provided , or if the buy-out is likely to weaken financially , the carrier result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets , or give control to a foreign interest .
if more information is needed , the secretary would have authority to extend the review period 20 days .
all the witnesses , both congressmen and industry experts , expressed support for the bill in order to prevent profiteers from cashing in on airline profits at the expense of safe , cost-effective service .
but several committee members disapproved , some backing mr. trump 's claim that the threat of regulation caused the failure of the ual deal and the stock-market plunge .
one of the major concerns expressed by the dissenters was that large airlines would be prohibited from divesting themselves of smaller entities and producing independent spin-off companies .
in a possible prelude to the resumption of talks between boeing co. and striking machinists union members , a federal mediator said representatives of the two sides will meet with him tomorrow .
doug hammond , the mediator , who called the agreement to meet a first step toward a resumption of negotiations said `` it could be a long meeting or it could be a short one , '' .
a boeing spokesman said `` we be encouraged that talks is scheduled again but beyond that , we have made no expression of expectations , '' .
the machinists union have rejected a three-year contract offer that would have provided a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus some bonuses .
boeing said currently , average pay for machinists is $ 13.39 an hour , .
now in its 13th day , the strike have idled about 55,000 machinists and has started to delay delivery of some jetliners .
with a strike fund of about $ 100 million , the union had said it was prepared for a long strike .
after the third week on strike , union members will begin receiving $ 100 a week from the fund .
work at boeing continue with supervisors and other non-striking personnel manning the lines .
and at the company 's wichita , kan. , plant , about 2,400 of the 11,700 machinists still are working , boeing said .
under kansas right-to-work laws , contracts can not require workers to be union members .
boeing have declined to say how many employees is working at its giant renton , wash. , plant .
union officials could n't be reached for comment .
dpc acquisition partners , a hostile suitor for dataproducts corp. , said it intend to launch a tender offer for the computer printer maker 's common stock .
dpc , a group led by the new york investment firm crescott inc. , also said it plan to file preliminary materials with the securities and exchange commission regarding a shareholder solicitation to oust dataproducts ' board .
dpc hold a 7.8 % stake in dataproducts and made a $ 15-a-share bid for the company in may , but dataproducts management considered the $ 283.7 million proposal unacceptable .
a dpc spokesman declined to elaborate on the group 's new plan .
in american stock exchange composite trading yesterday , dataproducts shares jumped 62.5 cents to close at $ 9.375 .
dataproducts , which had been seeking a buyer for several months , announced a restructuring plan in september and took itself off the auction block .
the company 's restructuring include plans to split into three sectors , to phase out domestic printer manufacturing operations and to sell its new england subsidiary .
as part of the plan , dataproducts announced a pact to sell $ 63 million of its real estate holdings to trizec properties inc. , a unit of canada 's trizec corp .
jack davis , dataproducts ' president , chairman and chief executive officer , said `` the company is at a loss to understand dpc 's intentions '' .
he called today 's announcement `` opportunistic and disruptive '' and said the company intend to proceed with its restructuring .
share prices plummeted across europe yesterday in response to friday 's new york sell-off , but some issues staged a late comeback after wall street opened without another rout .
european investors have further reason for optimism today , after the u.s. rebound .
the frankfurt stock exchange , which closed before the new york exchanges opened , was the hardest hit of the major european markets , with the dax index dropping 12.8 % .
in london , prices plummeted in early trading and were off as much as 9 % before coming back strong to close down only 3.2 % after the new york opening .
west german economics minister helmut haussmann said `` in my view , the stock market will stabilize relatively quickly , .
there may be one or other psychological or technical reactions , but they is n't based on fundamentals .
the economy of west germany and the ec -lcb- european community -rcb- is highly stable . ''
paris , which has been the center of speculation fever in recent weeks , also was hard hit .
share prices fell in milan , amsterdam , zurich , madrid and stockholm .
prices in brussels , a computer breakdown where disrupted trading , also tumbled .
the dax index of 30 west german blue chips plunged 12.8 % , a one-day record , wiping out the summer 's gains .
the index closed down 203.56 points at 1385.72 , .
by comparison , on black monday , the new index two years ago would have dropped 9.4 % , according to a projection by the exchange .
investors may have reacted so strongly to friday 's u.s. stock market loss because they had vivid memories of the frankfurt exchange 's losing 35 % of its value in the 1987 crash and its wake .
this time , many small investors however , may have been hurt by acting so swiftly .
andreas insam , an investment adviser for the bank in liechtenstein 's frankfurt branch said `` they all went in the wrong direction , '' .
he said he told clients to buy selected west german blue chips after they fell by about 10 % .
after the opening was delayed 30 minutes because of the crush of sell orders , frankfurt 's normal two-hour trading session was extended 75 minutes to handle the heavy volume .
nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank ag said `` the beginning was chaotic , '' .
`` it took three-quarters of an hour before enough prices could be worked out to get a reading on the market '' .
institutional investors and bankers , many of whom spent watching far eastern markets , the night before in their offices was cautiously optimistic after the mild 1.8 % decline in tokyo stock prices .
`` everybody was still confident , including most institutional investors .
'' norbert braeuer , a senior trader for hessische landesbank said that is a little everybody why was surprised by the storm of sell orders from small private investors , .
some big institutions , including banks , began late yesterday , picking up lower-priced shares but most investors wanted to see what would happen in new york before acting .
but if wall street even continue to stabilize , analysts here say the latest blow to investor confidence could inhibit a swift recovery for the frankfurt exchange , which already was showing signs of weakness after the dax had slipped from a 1989 high of 1657.61 on sept. 8 .
a 16.3 % drop for mannesmann ag and dresdner bank ag 's 9.6 % decline was especially problematic for their respective boards , whose plans for major rights issues in november could now be in jeopardy .
last month dresdner bank said it hoped to raise 1.2 billion marks ( $ 642.2 million ) by issuing four million shares at 300 marks each .
yesterday 's market yet cropped dresdner 's share price by 33 marks to 309 marks a share , leaving little incentive for investors to subscribe to the standing price unless the market recover quickly .
headed toward a record drop at midday , the london stock market recouped two-thirds of its losses in the wake of new york 's early rally .
the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index closed off 70.5 points , at 2163.4 , its high for the day , after having plunged 204.2 points at 12:49 p.m .
it was big institutions such as norwich union insurance group , scottish amicable investment managers and standard life assurance co. that spearheaded the rally .
attracted by low prices and encouraged by new york 's performance , they scooped up equities across the board .
volume was 959.3 million shares , more than triple recent levels .
late buying gave a parachute the paris bourse after its free fall early in the day .
the cac general index ended down 5.4 % at 523.6 , a drop of 29.6 points from friday .
michel vigier , a partner in brokerage firm cholet dupont said `` a volatility in the market i have never seen before , that there was '' .
`` wall street when turned around shortly after the opening , panic buying there was in paris '' .
brokers said that as the news spread that wall street was moving up , traders who had called to place sell orders changed their line in mid-conversation , ordering instead buys .
trading was driven primarily by small investors and speculators , with large institutions waiting on the sidelines until late in the day .
wall street when turned , the big boys however , entered the market , looking for bargains .
j.p. morgan & co. swung to a loss in the third quarter , while ncnb corp. reported net income more than doubled , and security pacific corp. net rose 10 % .
as expected , j.p. morgan , posted a $ 1.82 billion net loss for the quarter , reflecting the new york bank 's decision last month to add $ 2 billion to reserves for losses on loans to less-developed countries .
the reserve addition among a few major u.s. banks that have covered nearly all their medium and long-term portfolios to less-developed countries with reserves placed the parent of morgan guaranty trust co. .
the latest quarter 's loss equal $ 9.92 a share .
in the year-earlier quarter , morgan earned $ 233.6 million , or $ 1.25 a share .
george m. salem , analyst at prudential-bache securities inc. , called the results `` mildly disappointing '' .
mr. salem said excluding the $ 2 billion provision and allowing for the taxes morgan paid , earnings was about 65 cents a share , .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , morgan climbed $ 1.50 a share to $ 44.125 .
net interest income sank 27 % in the quarter to $ 254 million from $ 347 million .
morgan said the interest rate on short-term funds , which banks borrow to finance longer-term loans to customers , was `` sharply higher , '' .
morgan received $ 2 million of interest payments on its medium and long-term brazilian loans ; morgan said they had been accruing interest , net interest income would have been $ 35 million higher in the quarter , .
such loans to argentina also remain classified as non-accruing , costing $ 10 million of interest income the bank in the third period .
income from sources other than interest climbed 12 % to $ 414 million , reflecting higher corporate-finance and other fees and gains on sales of investment securities .
the bank said `` these increases was partly offset '' by lower trading-related income , .
non-interest expenses grew 16 % to $ 496 million .
ncnb corp. 's net income more than doubled in the period , largely because of continued strong performance by the bank 's texas operations .
the charlotte , n.c. , company said earnings rose to $ 143.6 million , or $ 1.45 a share , from $ 58.9 million , or 69 cents a share , a year earlier .
the latest quarter included a gain of $ 56.1 million , or 59 cents a share , related to the purchase of the remaining 51 % of ncnb texas national bank from the federal deposit insurance corp .
the strong performance , however , contrasted with an unexpectedly large increase in the size of ncnb 's problem loans , particularly in the southeast .
in the third quarter , nonperforming assets jumped to $ 474.1 million , or 1.43 % of net loans and leases , from $ 232.8 million , or 1.13 % in the second quarter .
nonperformers totaled $ 230.8 million , or 1.27 % in the year-ago third quarter .
a $ 33 million loan , which ncnb said `` it expect to be fully repaid early in the fourth quarter , with no loss , '' included is in the increase in the most recent quarter .
the deterioration in credit quality offset strong loan growth of 17 % in ncnb 's southeast operations , as well as a 28 % growth in deposits resulting from an aggressive marketing campaign .
the higher rates paid on deposits also helped squeeze ncnb 's net interest margin in the southeast to 3.38 % from 3.80 % a year earlier .
in big board composite trading yesterday , ncnb jumped $ 3.50 a share , to $ 51 .
results was released after the market closed .
ncnb texas national , formed from the remnants of of the failed first republicbank corp. of dallas , contributed $ 76.9 million to ncnb 's bottom line in the third quarter .
ncnb said its third-quarter results reflect 100 % of earnings of the texas operation since aug. 1 .
ncnb raised some $ 1.9 billion in new capital during the quarter to complete the ncnb texas purchase , and to acquire several small failed thrifts to fill out its regional franchise .
last week , the banking company said it purchased both freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , and university federal savings association of san antonio , texas , for $ 169.4 million .
in the first nine months , ncnb 's net income climbed 65 % to $ 310.9 million , or $ 3.30 a share , from $ 188.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share , a year earlier .
security pacific 's earnings growth slowed in the third quarter , but the los angeles bank holding company was still able to post a 10 % increase in net income because of robust growth in residential real-estate and consumer loans .
the company said the gain resulted mainly reflecting a 33 % increase in real estate loans ( mainly residential ) , and a 19 % rise in consumer loans from a $ 54 million increase in net interest income , .
these high-yielding loans in effect replaced some low-yielding assets such as inter-bank loans , which was allowed to decrease .
as a result , security pacific 's net interest margin fell only 13 basis points , a more mild decrease than some major banks outside california , which have been reporting more sluggish earnings .
security pacific shares closed down 37.5 cents , at $ 44.625 , in big board composite trading .
the earnings represent a 0.89 % return on assets for security pacific , and an 18.9 % return on equity .
the loan growth offset continuing real-estate loan losses in the depressed arizona market .
security pacific reported a 33 % increase in net credit losses for the quarter , to $ 109 million from $ 81.9 million in the year-ago period .
nonperforming loans grew slightly to $ 1.75 billion at sept. 30 , from $ 1.7 billion a year ago .
security pacific 's loan-loss provision was down 22 % , or $ 30.4 million , because it added the year before to its foreign-debt reserve .
non-interest income fell 6 % in the quarter , mainly because of an unusual gain a year earlier from the sale of hong kong banking operations .
non-interest expense grew only 4 % in the period .
lin broadcasting corp. said it wo n't take a position on a revised tender offer by mccaw cellular communications inc. to buy lin and has asked for clarification of the offer .
the new offer , which seek 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern , is for $ 125 a share for 22 million lin shares .
mccaw 's revised tender offer would require mccaw to begin an auction process in july 1994 that would buy out remaining holders at a per-share price roughly equivalent a third party to might then have what to pay for all of lin .
lin is asking mccaw to clarify its tender offer , which challenge an agreement between bellsouth corp. and lin to merge their cellular-telephone businesses .
bellsouth have notified lin that `` it would shortly respond to the mccaw proposal in as full and effective a manner as is warranted '' .
the lin board said holders may be misled by the provision in the mccaw proposal that `` guarantees '' private market value after five years for the remaining shares .
the lin board said mccaw have `` no obligation to purchase '' and the definition of private market value is uncertain , .
the board added that mccaw would be able to control lin 's operations and `` in a manner which could diminish its private market value and attractiveness to a third-party purchaser in five years could , therefore , operate lin '' .
in national over-the-counter trading , lin closed down $ 2.75 at $ 104.75 , .
a group of institutional investors in telerate inc. said that dow jones & co. 's $ 18-a-share offer for the electronic financial information services company is `` grossly inadequate '' .
in a letter filed with the securities and exchange commission , the group , which hold about 4.5 million telerate shares , or about 4.7 % of the shares outstanding , said `` ... '' at present none of us believe an offer for less than $ 25 per share would be fair and some believe that $ 25 is too low .
the letter was dated oct. 6 .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , telerate shares closed down 75 cents a share yesterday at $ 18.875 , .
dow jones , publisher of the wall street journal , have launched an $ 18-a-share , or $ 576 million , tender offer to acquire the remaining telerate shares outstanding ; dow jones own 67 % of telerate .
telerate have rejected the offer , which expires nov. 3 .
the group include putnam cos. and various affiliates based in boston ; wells fargo bank , san francisco ; the california public employees retirement system , sacramento , calif. , and t. rowe price associates inc. , baltimore .
among other issues , the group 's letter said it have `` concern as whether dow jones 's offer to meet the applicable requirements of procedural fairness '' .
a spokesman for dow jones said he had n't seen the group 's filing , but added `` dow jones obviously disagree with their conclusions , .
our offer is to buy any and all shares tendered at $ 18 a share .
u.s. trade representative carla hills said the first dispute-settlement panel set up under the u.s.-canadian `` free '' trade agreement have ruled that canada 's restrictions on exports of pacific salmon and herring violate the accord .
mrs. hills said the u.s. and canada have to resolve the dispute until nov. 13 .
if a solution is n't reached by then , she said , the u.s. would have the right to suspend some trade concessions to canada equivalent in value to the losses suffered by u.s. fish-processing companies in alaska and the pacific northwest .
in ottawa , canadian trade minister john crosbie however , said the dispute-settlement panel accepted the `` legitimacy of canada 's position on the use of these landing requirements to conserve these important fisheries and manage '' .
questioned about the seeming contradiction in the u.s. and canadian government views of the panel 's report , an aide for mrs. hills said the panel had clearly ruled that `` the canadian trade restrictions is illegal '' .
the u.s. trade representative declined to put a dollar estimate on the losses resulting from the canadian export restrictions .
canada initially had an export prohibition that was replaced by regulations requiring that such fish had to be brought ashore prior to export in british columbia by commercial fishermen .
this action was defended by the canadian government on conservation grounds .
mrs. hills said that the dispute-settlement panel rejected this canadian government argument yesterday .
she said `` we fully expect that canada will comply with the panel 's ruling that the `` landing requirement '' also must be ended , '' .
an international panel set up under the rules of the general agreement on tariffs and trade in geneva earlier , determined that the original canadian fish-export restrictions violated gatt rules .
mrs. hills said the u.s. wo n't accept any delays after nov. 13 because u.s. fish-processing firms enter to purchase the next season 's catch into contracts in the fall .
she said the canadian restrictions must be removed before such contracts is concluded .
to spend a carefree , idle day , duty when call , to pay no heed , to while away the precious hours -- character is what you need .
the guy who throw an intercept 'cause his receiver slip should somehow be advised that we at home can read his lips .
bancoklahoma corp. said it completed a restructuring agreement previously agreed to by the federal deposit insurance corp. , creditor banks and subordinated debenture holders .
the plan would permit the bank holding company to retire its bank and debenture obligations through exchanges of cash and equity .
the fdic , which in 1986 provided $ 130 million in open-bank assistance to bancoklahoma 's bank of oklahoma , tulsa , unit will continue to maintain $ 90 million in preferred stock in the tulsa bank unit .
in exchange for the other $ 40 million , the fdic will receive additional warrants entitling it to buy up from the 55 % option the fdic received under terms of the 1986 capital infusion 60 % of bancoklahoma 's common stock outstanding , .
the bank holding company said in exchange for the $ 76 million they is owed , creditor banks will receive 3.9 million shares of bancoklahoma common stock and the proceeds from the future sales of four subsidiary banks to private buyers , .
the company said also under the agreement , debenture holders will get one million shares of common stock in exchange for $ 7.7 million in debentures and holders of bancoklahoma 's series a preferred stock will receive 1.25 shares of common stock for every share of preferred they own , .
were it true that a weak currency pave the way for trade surpluses , then presumably argentina would be the center of today 's global economy .
bsn corp. said it will begin an offer tomorrow to exchange up to one million of its common shares and all of its $ 16.6 million in 7 3/4 % convertible debentures due 2001 for a package of new debt and common stock warrants .
under terms of the offer , the sporting goods maker will swap $ 9 face amount of 9 1/4 % subordinated notes due 1996 and one warrant for each common share .
each warrant allow the holder to buy one bsn share for $ 10.75 a share at any time over the next seven years .
bsn currently have 4.6 million common shares outstanding .
bsn also is offering $ 850 face amount of new notes and 64 common-stock warrants for each $ 1,000 face amount of its convertible debt outstanding .
the company said it can redeem the warrants at its option for $ 1 each .
the offer is n't contingent on a certain amount of debt or stock being exchanged .
bsn said it is making the offer to shrink its capital and increase shareholder value .
michael j. blumenfeld , president said if all the bondholders and holders of one million common shares accept the offer , bsn will increase its debt by $ 9 million , but it also will recognize a $ 2 million gain from retiring the old debt , .
he said `` we have sufficient cash flow to handle that , '' .
the offers is scheduled to expire in mid to late november .
merrill lynch & co. 's net income dropped 37 % , while bear stearns cos. posted a 7.5 % gain in net , and painewebber group inc. 's profit fell , but would have risen a year ago without a special gain .
total revenue reached up 10 % from $ 2.57 billion $ 2.83 billion , .
the firm 's drop in net reflected weaker revenue in transactions for its own account -- a decline of 19 % to $ 314.6 million on reduced revenue from trading fixed-income securities .
investment banking revenue fell 22 % to $ 296.6 million on fewer equity and municipal underwritings .
merrill lynch 's commission revenue grew however , 21 % , to $ 462.8 million , on higher share prices and volume and on strong sales of mutual funds .
revenue derived from interest and dividends jumped 30 % to $ 1.4 billion .
asset-management fee revenue grew 12 % to $ 151 million .
the brokerage also reported a loss of $ 2.2 million from the discontinued operations and disposal of its fine homes international limited partnership real-estate subsidiary .
bear stearns said net in the first quarter ended sept. 29 reached $ 22.1 million , or 23 cents a share , from $ 20.5 million , or 20 cents a share , in the year-earlier quarter .
gross revenue rose 21 % to $ 580.4 million from $ 478.9 million .
the securities firm said profit from trading for its own account dropped , .
investment banking revenue climbed 25 % , while commission revenue advanced 31 % on a stronger retail market .
bear stearns is the holding company for bear , stearns & co. , the investment banking and brokerage firm .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , bear stearns shares closed down 25 cents at $ 13.625 , .
painewebber separately , posted net income for the third quarter of $ 16.8 million , or 41 cents a share , reflecting a `` broad-based improvement '' in the company 's core businesses .
retail profit surged , but the company said it was only a `` modest contributor '' to third-quarter results .
a year ago , net at the new york investment banking firm was $ 20.9 million , or 50 cents a share , including a special pretax gain of $ 46.3 million from the sale of the company 's interest in national car rental systems inc .
revenue was $ 444.9 million , including net interest , down slightly from $ 450.7 million .
in big board composite trading yesterday , painewebber closed up 75 cents at $ 18.50 , .
seafirst corp. said it signed an agreement with builder martin selig to purchase its headquarters building , the columbia seafirst center , for $ 354 million .
purchase of the 76-story structure is subject to execution of a definitive agreement , approval by the boards of seafirst and its parent company bankamerica corp. , and approval by regulators .
the market upheaval apparently have n't triggered yet any cash crunch -- .
individual investors , investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates can suffer liquidity and payment problems stocks when dive ; those investors often borrow heavily to buy their holdings and use the stocks as collateral for loans .
but several large banks said they detected no signs of unusual demand for credit that would signal such difficulties yesterday .
one official at a top 10 bank said `` we be seeing nothing out of the ordinary , '' .
`` that be good news , because we all swim in this water . ''
another executive at a big bank added `` we was all a little goosey over the weekend trying to forecast what would happen -lcb- monday -rcb- , but it 's been very quiet : .
what happened friday shows that financial markets is not yet sufficiently coordinated to handle another meltdown in prices .
no fiddling with systems and procedures will ever prevent markets from suffering a panic wave of selling .
but markets can operate with greater or lesser efficiency .
after the 1987 plunge , markets agreed that it would be wise to halt trading panic conditions whenever arose .
the new york stock exchange adopted two specific circuit breakers : if the dow jones index fall 250 points in a day , the exchange will halt trading for one hour ; if the decline hit 400 points , the exchange will close for an additional two hours .
the rationale is that an interruption of trading will allow investors to reconsider their strategies , calm sellers and lead buyers to enter the market at indicated new price levels .
it is impossible to know whether that theory is realistic .
a temporary cessation of trading may indeed discourage a selling panic from feeding on itself .
but the possibility that shutting down markets will intensify fears and cause an even more abrupt slide in prices there is also .
the futures exchanges followed their own pre-set circuit breakers and shut down at about 3 p.m. for 30 minutes , after the standard & poor 's 500 stock index had fallen 12 points , or about 100 points on the dow jones index .
options markets stopped trading in many securities .
under its own rules , the new york stock exchange , remained open .
with nowhere else to go , sellers , and particularly program traders , focused all their selling on the new york stock exchange .
as liquidity on that market weakened , prices fell sharply .
had the futures and options markets been open , additional liquidity would have been provided and the decline , most probably , would have been less intense .
at 3:30 , after intense telephone negotiations between the trading markets and washington , the futures exchanges reopened .
futures trading , however , was halted altogether at 3:45 , after the futures markets had dropped an additional 30 points , which is the daily limit for price declines .
at this point , the options markets also shut down and once more left all sales to be handled by the new york stock exchange .
it is time to recognize that the new york stock exchange , the futures markets and the options markets , though physically separate , have actually become so closely intertwined as to constitute effectively one market .
traders can vary their strategies and execute their orders in any one of them .
it therefore make no sense for each market to adopt different circuit breakers .
synchronized circuit breakers would not have halted the slide in prices on friday , but they probably would have made for smoother , less volatile executions .
it 's time for the exchanges and the securities and exchange commission to agree on joint conditions for halting trading or staying open .
let 's not have one market shut down for 30 minutes the dow when decline 100 points and another shut down for an hour after a 250-point decline .
the need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials will disappear once rules is in place that synchronize circuit breakers in all markets .
if they is to be applied at all , the new circuit breakers , will require that futures and options trading continue as long as the new york stock exchange remain open .
the rules should be established by agreement of the officials of all affected exchanges acting under the oversight and with the approval of the government regulatory agencies .
should the sec and the commodities futures trading commission ( which , with the sec , regulates the chicago stock-index markets ) be unable to agree , the issue may have to be resolved by decision of the treasury secretary .
in many ways , our financial markets is better prepared to handle a decline today than they was two years ago .
the new york stock exchange now have the capacity to handle a volume of nearly a billion shares a day .
telephone service have been improved for customers trying to reach their brokers , and specialists -- who i believe should stay , despite the urgings of some post-crash critics -- have larger capital positions .
( of course , specialists ' actions alone can never prevent a major crack in stock prices .
witness the fact that trading in some stocks closed early friday and opened late monday because of an excess of sell orders ) .
but the task of improving market performance remain unfinished .
mr. freund , former chief economist of the new york stock exchange , is a professor of economics at pace university 's business school in new york .
a unified europe pose labor problems and prospects for u.s. firms .
general electric senior vice president frank doyle say the `` social dimension '' -- worker concerns -- of the european community 's plan to open its internal borders in 1992 could set the effort `` off the rails '' if not done reasonably , .
he say u.s. companies wanting to expand in europe in nations such as west germany , which play a big consulting role in management decisions , face `` tough pressure '' from unions .
fmc corp. and baxter international say unions also wo n't like plant relocations and needed restructuring , which mean layoffs .
many employers have already begun moving to southern countries such as spain and italy , where wages is low and unions is weaker ; demand for trained labor and managers will rise there , fmc say .
pfizer , fluor and ge see big `` ec '' 92 pluses : a push for job training and ease in moving and finding workers .
a federal judge , so said in a case involving two players for the minor league bluefield , va. , orioles , a baltimore farm team .
the players was heckled by a patron during a july 4 , 1988 , game with the martinsville phillies .
the judge said like its parent that year , `` bluefield was not having a good year , '' .
after the game ( he noted `` bluefield lost 9-8 , stranding three runners in ... the ninth , , '' ) , trouble began .
the players said , more taunting in the parking lot , led to a fight .
the fan said he was punched and kicked by one player and that the other broke his jaw with a baseball bat .
the judge dismissed however , the fan 's suit against the team , ruling the orioles innocent of negligent hiring , and not responsible for a fight that was outside the players ' employment .
proposals arise for coping with the shortage of nurses .
an association of academic health centers report urge from duties that do n't require special skills freeing nurses .
it also recommend better retirement and day-care benefits , and basing pay on education , experience and nurses ' demanding work schedules .
but it oppose an american medical association proposal for creating a `` registered care technologist , '' as `` potentially divisive '' ; it say the job would entail an unwanted new doctor 's `` bedside '' extension .
mra staffing systems sign up nurses for paid travel , promising annual income up to $ 50,000 and free or subsidized housing .
consultant hay group say treating employees with respect is crucial for managers , after surveys of a million workers .
it be in their top five `` work values . ''
fully 80 % of employees who say their bosses treat them with respect , but only a third of those who do n't feel respected say they be satisfied with they where work .
sprucing up the digs : for four months about 200 employees of the maryland department of economic and employment development painted walls , polished floors , and carpeted bought plants , cleaned windows and blinds , and hung pictures at the agency 's baltimore office .
the 3,000 hours of work will save $ 55,000 the state .
a bureau of national affairs survey of 250 companies with pacts expiring next year indicate curbing wage boosts will get again high priority in 1990 collective bargaining , .
despite labor-shortage warnings , 80 % aim for first-year wage increases of under 4 % ; and 77 % say they 'd try to replace workers , if struck , or would consider it .
the national association of temporary services say temporary workers have good educations , ; its survey of 2,508 such employees show 82 % with more than a high-school education , and 31 % with college degrees .
about 12 % have retired from a full-time job , while 54 % was asked to stay on full time .
home-sale losses rise , but they be often covered by employers .
but they search for ways to limit the damage .
about 72 % reimburse for all or some losses .
the council say since 1984 , more companies give sales-loss aid , as many real-estate values depreciated , .
rjr nabisco pay up to $ 30,000 of losses , including improvements .
goodrich wo n't ensure loss coverage , but will prevent a `` catastrophic loss '' ; it have given the full purchase price values when fell from concern over dangers posed by a disposal site some employees .
federal express , dow chemical , ford and national city corp. will buy the home or let the worker sell to an outside firm , but usually wo n't cover a loss .
since 1984 , firms offering prepurchase house appraisals , to deter overpaying , rose to 40 % of those the council polled , from 28 % .
the checkoff : the national academy of engineering give a $ 350,000 achievement award two inventors of the semiconductor microchip ... .
now , that be reactionary : letter carriers union president vincent sombrotto accuse philadelphia postmaster charles james of `` 12th century ... oppressive management tactics .
yesterday was , in the words of new york stock exchange chairman john j. phelan jr. , just your `` reasonably normal , 400 million-share , up 88-points day . ''
it when was over all and stocks had staged a huge recovery , big board officials was self-congratulatory about the day how well had gone .
they said the exchange 's trading procedures , personnel , equipment and links with other exchanges could n't have performed better .
mr. phelan said `` we had no operating problems at all , '' after the market closed .
`` all the things we set up that to slow down the process , to let people know that the market was in an extreme position , worked extremely well '' .
officials said prices for the 416.3 million shares that changed hands during the session was carried on the exchange 's trading tape with barely a delay , .
while reaching blockbuster proportions yesterday , the volume was still well within the 600 million-share capacity the exchange have said that it can handle daily since beefing up its computers after the october 1987 crash .
the so-called circuit breakers devised to quell free falls in stock and futures prices by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange was n't triggered yesterday because the markets was higher for most of the day .
despite traders ' complaints , mr. phelan said the links with the chicago futures market worked as planned to provide a cooling-off period in friday 's rout .
of greater help , the big board chairman said , the `` natural circuit breaker '' of the weekend , that provided a breathing period `` that brought back rationality to the market was .
chicken chains ruffled by loss of customers
fast-food chicken chains , faced with a worsening business slump , is struggling to hatch some new marketing strategies .
the crest report , which track consumer purchases , say customer traffic at chicken restaurants fell 10 % in the second quarter , while the overall fast-food customer count was down 2 % .
a spokesman for the report , a publication of npd group , a market research firm in port washington , n.y say chicken business is off largely because of more competition from grocery-store convenience food , home-delivered pizza and other takeout fare , .
the loss of more customers is the latest in a string of problems .
church 's fried chicken inc. and popeye 's famous fried chicken inc. , which have merged , is still troubled by overlapping restaurant locations .
chicken chains also is feeling more pressure from mcdonald 's corp. , which introduced its mcchicken sandwich this year and recently tested the sale of individual pieces of chicken .
new management at kentucky fried chicken , a unit of pepsico inc. , have fought back with new medium and large chicken sandwiches for the lunch crowd .
and the chain is testing products that are n't fried , such as `` char-grilled '' chicken , to try to win health-conscious consumers .
kentucky fried chicken also is testing home-delivery of chicken , which could be a hit with stay-at-home diners .
but some fast-food industry analysts say problems with keeping chicken warm and fresh must be solved first .
a kentucky fried chicken spokesman , however , disputed the notion that the delivery service experienced problems in some markets testing where have been discontinued .
he say the test is continuing in chicago , columbus , ohio , and a few other cities .
the advertising industry is buzzing with rumors that kentucky fried chicken will drop young & rubicam and seek a new ad agency .
but the company decline to comment .
emanuel goldman , a painewebber inc. analyst , predict kentucky fried chicken will post an 11 % drop in 1989 net income .
`` they 've been laggard , '' he say , `` but '' they 'll have to become more aggressive .
reluctant advertisers try soft-sell spots
pittsburgh consultant david bear to clients who want exposure yet shun pushy ads is selling a soft approach .
his ploy : 60-second radio spots that offer helpful hints .
the only plug for the sponsor is a brief mention at the end of the spot .
the messages resemble the business traveler , a daily dose of travel tips developed by mr. bear and sponsored by travel agencies in several major cities .
new un-advertisers include burt hill kosar rittlemann associates , a butler , pa. , architectural firm .
its radio series feature such spots as `` floodlights : evening wear for urban structures '' and `` building a place to park '' .
john kosar , the firm 's president , say `` a harder sell , would detract from the profession '' .
hospitals have signed up to use the messages to promote fundraisers , and equitable gas co. is considering the format to offer energy tips to consumers .
john fitzgerald , chairman of ketchum advertising usa , which created similar radio spots for pittsburgh national bank say `` a risk of lost messages , there be always '' .
`` it be a question of you gain how much credibility for the possible loss of recognition . ''
retailer see pitfalls in environmental push
here a retailer that 's getting tough in the push for environmentally safe packaging and products be .
big bear supermarkets inc. , a grocery chain based in san diego , plan to display shelf cards and distribute pamphlets recommending products deemed safe for the environment .
the choices will be based on research by the san diego environmental health coalition and will include products like murphy 's oil soap and other noncorrosive cleaners .
but the chain is quickly realizing the pitfalls of such endorsements .
for example , it recommend nonchlorinated dishwasher detergent and put sunlight on its environmentally safe list .
that do n't thrill procter & gamble co. , maker of cascade dishwasher detergent .
a company spokesman questioned the validity of the list , noting that chlorine is present in all major dishwasher detergents .
in fact , lever bros. confirm that its sunlight brand do contain chlorine bleach , though it even is n't listed on the label for the powder version .
thomas g. dahlen , big bear 's executive vice president , said the chain is still reviewing its product list to avoid such problems .
he say `` our intent is to promote the best alternative , '' .
`` and it be important that we be accurate . ''
but in the end , customers ' wishes is what will prevail .
big bear do n't care for disposable diapers , which are n't biodegradable .
yet parents demand them .
mr. dahlen , say `` we 'll still be forced to sell items we might not philosophically agree with '' .
neatness do count -- at least in the grocery store .
a study by safeway 's scanner marketing research show soap sales climbed 5 % bars when was neatly stacked on shelves instead of dumped in a wire basket ... .
which celebrity endorsers is most believable ?
for the third year in a row , consumers voted bill cosby first and james garner second in persuasiveness as spokesmen in tv commercials , according to video storyboard tests , new york .
michael j. fox replaced bruce willis in third place ; cher placed fourth for the second time .
bush administration officials said health and human services secretary louis sullivan have chosen antonia novello to be the next surgeon general , .
if she is nominated by president bush and confirmed by the senate , dr. novello would succeed c. everett koop , who rattled liberals and conservatives alike with his outspoken views on a range of health issues .
dr. novello , an expert on pediatric kidney diseases , is deputy director of the national institute of child health and human development .
she have also served on several task forces on acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
dr. novello 's office said she would n't talk with reporters , and it refused to release any information about her .
the newsletter medicine & health , which first disclosed her selection by dr. sullivan , said she is 44 years old and she studied at the university of puerto rico school of medicine .
the continuing series of hud scandals is a sadly predictable result of pork-barrel politics .
lobbies such as the national association of home builders ( nahb ) nevertheless , continue to pressure capitol hill for more special-interest spending .
kent colton , nahb executive vice president , argue that the u.s. face a multifaceted housing crisis -- reduced affordability of homes for first-time buyers , increased homelessness , and lower apartment construction rates -- that will be `` very difficult '' to solve `` without expanded federal resources '' .
nothing unusual about business groups pushing for more government spending there be .
but the nahb out of an organization that made its name fighting a roosevelt administration proposal to take over all defense housing production was created in 1943 .
mr. colton argue `` the hud budget have dropped by more than 70 % since 1980 , '' .
`` we have taken more than our fair share .
i would n't have a problem if other programs had taken a similar hit '' .
but nahb support for subsidies is not related to the current housing crunch ; over the years the nahb have backed a host of public programs .
it once pushed for a national housing production goal set by the federal government and have regularly advanced anti-recession housing measures .
one hud official , explain the nahb moreover , remain susceptible to internal pressure from members that specialize in subsidized production .
the association is pushing an extensive and expensive wish-list , which would substantially boost spending above the current level of more than $ 15 billion annually .
it would like to peg the ceiling on federal housing administration mortgage guarantees to 95 % of the median price in a particular market , instead of limiting it to $ 101,250 ; reduce fha down-payment requirements ( or even eliminate ) and increase the availability of variable-rate mortgages ; expand the veterans affairs department loan guarantee program ; provide `` adequate '' funding for the farmers home administration ( fmha ) ; increase federal funding and tax incentives for the construction of low-income and rental housing , including $ 4 billion in block grants to states and localities ; and `` fully fund the mckinney act , a $ 656 million potpourri for the homeless '' .
direct federal subsidies for housing construction have proved intolerably expensive in the past , and inevitably are twisted to the benefit of well-connected developers and lobbyists , as demonstrated by the ongoing hud scandal , or congressmen .
through the fha , for instance , indirect subsidies , is little better .
though mr. colton say expanding fha lending would result in `` no cost to the government , '' the mere diversion of funds from other parts of the economy and from other forms of housing ( such as low-income ) to the single-family home market would result in a major expense .
more important , housing programs run by hud , the va , and fmha is awash in red ink .
the fha alone lost $ 4.2 billion in fiscal 1988 ; the government 's equity in the agency , essentially its reserve fund , fell to minus $ 2.9 billion .
the federal government have had to pump in $ 2.28 billion into the va housing program since 1984 to keep the fund afloat and the va requested an additional $ 120 million for the fiscal year just ended .
the federal government all told , already guarantee more than $ 900 billion of mortgages .
in its nicely produced publication `` our children where will live ? '' the nahb do acknowledge that `` of course , the full measure of housing affordability can not be provided by the federal government '' .
it point to the pernicious impact of local government regulation , particularly zoning and building fees , which push the price of housing out of the reach of low- and middle-income people .
but while the nahb have suggested actions states and localities should take that to reduce regulatory barriers , the association have proposed no activist legislative program -- comparable to , say , its detailed request for more federal subsidies -- to eliminate counterproductive controls .
the association , a majority of whose 156,000 members build fewer than 25 units a year , is like many other business lobbies .
sheila macdonald of the national taxpayers union explain `` it tread in two worlds : .
the builders like the subsidies , but at the same time they tend to be fiscal conservatives in terms of major issues , such as the balanced-budget amendment '' .
the organization 's desire for pork unfortunately , tend to override its commitment to overall fiscal responsibility .
ms. macdonald say the nahb when lobbied for the $ 19 billion omnibus housing bill , `` the organization two years ago basically dropped out of the taxpayers ' coalition , '' .
as mr. colton of the nahb acknowledge : `` government is not going to solve the problem ... .
the real key is to have the economy working and interest rates down '' .
more money for hud will increase the deficit and destabilize the economy ; more money to municipalities that is wrecking their local housing markets will further insulate them from the destructive effects of their policies .
this is what the home builders want ?
mr. bandow is a cato institute fellow .
( see related story : `` and bills to make wishes come true '' -- wsj oct. 17 , 1989 .
in an attempt to give new momentum to european community plans for a single currency , ec government leaders is likely to agree to set a date for starting formal talks on amending the ec 's founding treaty of rome .
according to diplomatic sources in brussels , most ec leaders agree that talks should begin in the second half of 1990 , and will make a declaration on that during a summit meeting in strasbourg , france , on dec. 8 and 9 .
the only strong opposition to changing the ec treaty from british prime minister margaret thatcher , who is opposed to creating a single ec currency come .
but the process of convening the intergovernmental conference do n't require unanimity .
french president francois mitterrand fought to set a date for the conference during the ec summit in madrid last june , but the move was scuttled because of opposition by mrs. thatcher and west german chancellor helmut kohl .
diplomatic sources said mr. kohl may now agree to set a date for the conference to make clear that it west germany is still committed to ec unity .
the latest crewcut in the equities markets remind me of the joke t. boone pickens tell about the guy who was run over by the parade .
when asked `` what went wrong '' ? the unfortunate victim replied `` it was a combination of things '' , .
and so it was on gray friday .
the grand marshal of this parade would appear to have been excess leverage .
if that even is so , however , it be probably the case that no barriers should have been erected to stop the procession before the end of the rout ( e ) .
the ceremonies began friday afternoon word when spread that the ual buy-out was collapsing .
although the union-bidder expect to patch together a substitute offer , consisting of less cash , the failure to get cash from japanese and american banks confirmed a growing fear among arbitragers that the pageant of high-leverage takeover deals is ending .
lots of other entries made up the parade , of course -- notably a surprisingly large increase in producer prices , signalling federal reserve tightness ; and the bush administration 's ( temporary ? ) defeat in trying to lower the capital-gains tax .
as usual , few favorable reviews was heard for that ever-present marching band of program traders , although most serious studies suggest they only play the music that others write .
what really spooked the crowds along wall street , however , was the sudden concern that , whatever the reason , the pool of debt capital is drying up .
gray friday reflect a panic mainly by the takeover arbitragers , rather than the small investor , their highly margined investments in the `` deal '' stocks as is jeopardized by the unexpected drying up of the lubricant for deal financing .
deal stocks led down the market as they absorbed the heaviest losses .
ual , which triggered the slide , opened down about 20 % from thursday 's close monday at $ 224 , .
amr opened down nearly 20 % from thursday 's close monday at $ 80 , .
hilton lost 20 % on friday ; paramount lost almost 11 % .
a careful look reveal that deal financing where have been secured , the target 's stock price was not affected on friday .
the multibillion-dollar prospects , the bidder where must line up a consortium of banks and/or issue billions in high-yield debt , was the damage where was concentrated .
the market for so-called junk bonds have been setting the stage for friday 's dramatic march for several weeks .
the growing financial difficulties of recent high-leverage restructurings or takeovers , such as resorts international , integrated resources , and campeau 's retailing empire , have cast a pall over the entire market for high-yield securities .
investors have reacted by ignoring recent efforts to float junk bonds by ohio mattress and by forcing ramada to postpone indefinitely its planned junk-bond sale and restructuring .
as a result , high-yield mutual funds have declined across the board and the many firms planning to sell $ 11 billion in junk bonds before year-end is experiencing anxious times .
these is all market excesses ( putting aside the artificial boosts the tax code give that to debt over equity ) , and what we 've seen is the market reining in them .
of course , washington had n't been silent in the days leading up to the debacle , and its tendency to meddle in the leverage equation remain a troublesome prospect , but those preliminary steps should n't distract us from the basic market fundamentalism that was at work on friday .
if it is correct to find that concerns over corporate debt and lbos caused gray friday , what the implications for policy makers is ?
the stock market 's response to the collapse of the ual deal after all , might be taken to confirm the anti-debt direction of regulators .
is this a case private markets where is approving of washington 's bashing of wall street ?
to the extent that friday 's sell-off reflected a sudden reappraisal of the excesses of leverage , the message is that wall street and the private markets is fully capable of imposing the appropriate incentives and sanctions on corporate behavior .
the national economic interests is much better served allowing the private interests of bankers and investors be the ultimate judges of the investment quality of various lbo deals and leveraged restructurings .
the recent difficulties in the junk-bond markets and the scarcity of bank capital for recent deals underscore the wisdom of letting the free markets operate .
if takeover premiums become excessive , if lbo dealmakers become too aggressive , the private market then will recognize more quickly and accurately than will policy makers , these problems and the markets will move to impose appropriate sanctions with lightning speed .
yes , the broader exchanges got caught up in the spiral , but they rode up the tiger all year .
he not surprisingly , sometimes bite .
the arbitragers and takeover initiatiors got killed on gray friday , while the besieged managers of prospective targets cheered lustily .
if you identify with the besieged managers , you must concede that speedy and effective relief from the excesses of the takeover market is more likely to come from the marketplace than from washington .
if you side with the arbitragers and raiders , you clearly have more to fear from private investors than from regulators , although the delaware courts should never be underestimated .
the truth is washington understand better than economics politics , .
although the average citizen is probably not harmed too much from washington 's rhetorical war against wall street regarding excessive financial leveraging , actual legislation would probably impose considerable harm .
any such attempt to distinguish `` good debt '' from `` bad debt , '' or to draw the line at a particular industry , such as the airlines , is likely to blunt the spur the proper amount of leverage provide that both to equity markets and economic efficiency in general .
far better for policy makers to concentrate on the war against drugs , panama and the deficit , all of them parades that seem never to end .
mr. jarrell , former top economist at the securities and exchange commission , teach at the university of rochester 's simon business school .
tokyo share prices rebounded tuesday morning , with the nikkei index of 225 selected stocks rising 618.69 points to close the morning session at 35087.38 .
the index slid 647.33 points , or 1.8 % , on monday .
in the first 25 minutes of tuesday 's trading the nikkei index soared 664.83 points , to 35133.83 .
by 10 a.m. tokyo time , the index was up 435.11 points , to 34903.80 as investors hailed new york 's overnight rally .
monday 's slide in a relatively calm session that did n't provide much direction for other markets came .
shares also closed sharply lower across europe , particularly in frankfurt , although london and a few other markets recovered some ground after stocks began to rebound in new york .
other asian and pacific markets had sharper losses than tokyo , but the selling wave stopped short of precipitating another market crash .
all eyes was on tokyo at the opening because it was the first major market to trade since friday 's 190.58-point plunge on wall street .
but rather than set the tone for other markets , japan 's major institutional investors chose to remain on the sidelines .
despite the sudden reappearance of stock-market turbulence , managers of japanese investment funds still , said they was n't planning to unload u.s. or european equities .
a fund manager at taisho life insurance co said `` we did n't trade much today , as our policy now is to wait and see , '' .
`` we would like to wait and see until trading go around through europe and new york '' .
the institutions appeared confident that japanese regulators would step in to ensure orderly trading if necessary , and considerable speculation during the day that the finance ministry was working to do just that behind the scenes there was .
but in the absence of panicky trading , its presence was never overtly felt .
at the close , the nikkei average of 225 stocks stood down 647.33 points , or 1.8 % at 34468.69 , .
the broader tokyo stock price index sank 45.66 , or 1.7 % , to 2600.88 .
the day 's decline was generally in line with analysts ' weekend predictions .
declining issues swamped 941-105 advancers , .
but volume was thin at 526.2 million shares , compared with 574.7 million friday .
the market opened sharply lower , with the nikkei average down nearly 600 after 20 minutes .
a midmorning rebound brought back it to show a gain of about 200 at the end of the morning session , but the rally failed in the afternoon , and the market closed near the day 's low .
the smaller stocks in the tokyo market 's second section also posted their biggest decline of the year .
the tokyo stock exchange index for the second section fell 100.96 , or 2.7 % , to 3655.40 .
many investors , trying to outperform the market 's major indexes , have flocked to these small issues in recent weeks .
japanese investors and traders expressed relief that the tokyo market did n't fall more sharply .
but its performance did bear some resemblance to events of two years ago , during the october 1987 global stock market crash .
on oct. 16 , 1987 -- the friday before the black monday crash -- the new york market dropped 4.6 % , and tokyo followed on monday with a 2.4 % drop .
this time , wall street 's plunge of 6.9 % friday was followed by yesterday 's 1.8 % loss in tokyo .
tokyo 's biggest fall two years ago , came the day after new york 's 22.6 % black monday plunge , the nikkei average when fell 14.9 % .
yesterday market participants thus , was looking ahead nervously to wall street 's opening .
but in new york yesterday , the dow jones industrial average surged 88.12 to close at 2657.38 on heavy volume of 416,290,000 shares , although declining issues still outnumbered advancing ones on the broad market .
nobuto yasuda , a director at yamaichi investment trust & management co. , called yesterday 's session `` a good scenario '' for japan .
he said `` we now is looking for the time to place buy orders , '' .
`` for us institutional investors , the chance for buying have come '' .
also isao ushikubo , general manager of the investment research department at toyo trust & banking co. , was optimistic .
he described friday 's plunge in the u.s. as a `` fleeting '' event resulting in part from excessive merger and acquisition activity .
he said `` unless a panic , there is this is the best time to buy , as was the case two years ago , '' .
`` those shares which had posted gains on m&a speculation was dashed with cold water , but much impact as far as major stocks is concerned , there is n't '' .
other fund managers was similarly sanguine .
masato murakami , chief portfolio manager in the pension fund management department at yasuda trust & banking co said `` we have no plans to adjust our asset allocation in foreign equities , '' .
he said friday 's wall street decline was `` well within the range of volatility '' that for yasuda trust plan it when chart its overseas investment strategy .
among other asian and pacific markets , malaysia and singapore had the biggest losses , with the kuala lumpur composite index in malaysia falling 11.5 % and singapore 's straits times industrial index down 10 % .
major indexes declined more than 8 % in australia and new zealand and 6.5 % in hong kong .
bangkok , manila , seoul , taipei and jakarta escaped with slightly smaller losses .
brokers and fund managers said the region 's markets was reacting to friday 's wall street plunge even though that decline was due to local factors such as failed corporate buy-outs and a deteriorating junk-bond market .
william au yeung , an account executive for drexel burnham lambert ( hk ) ltd. in hong kong said `` it be pure psychology , '' .
`` markets in this region is n't so geared to leveraged buy-outs , and generally their economies is in good shape , but no doubt that asia is still following america 's lead there be '' .
several analysts said malaysia and singapore had the biggest losses because they is relatively open to rapid cash flows .
hong kong is the region 's next most open market , but many foreign investors have been staying away from it since it plunged in june amid political turmoil in china .
elizabeth hambrecht , a regional analyst with baring securities ( hong kong ) ltd said `` singapore took the hit people when want to get out , they because tend to go the liquidity where is , '' .
she pointed out that even after monday 's 10 % decline , the straits times index is up 24 % this year , so investors who bailed out generally did so profitably .
yesterday kuala lumpur 's composite index similarly , ended 27.5 % above its 1988 close .
in hong kong , the hang seng index fell 180.60 to finish at 2601.70 .
trading was heavy at about one billion shares , compared with 473.9 million friday .
but the session was orderly , in contrast to the market 's four-day closure after the 1987 crash .
richard chenevix-trench , a director at hong kong-based baring international fund managers ltd. , said the market probably have n't hit yet bottom but is close .
he said `` if new york do n't collapse , i see maybe another 5 % on the downside , not counting the risk of bad news out of china , '' .
in australia , sydney 's all ordinaries index closed down 8.1 % , at 1601.5 , its biggest drop since october 1987 .
but volume rose only to 162 million shares from 143 million friday .
nestor hinzack , an analyst at brokerage firm burdett , buckeridge & young ltd. , described the market 's performance as `` sheep-like '' as investors fled to bluechip australian stocks and shunned entrepreneurial companies they perceived as having any takeover premium built into the price .
london 's financial times-stock exchange 100-share index , the most closely watched market barometer , ended down 70.5 , or 3.2 % at its intraday high of 2163.4 , .
at its low , before wall street shortly opened , it was off more than 130 points .
the financial times 30-share index closed 79.3 points lower at 1738.7 .
volume more than doubled to 959.3 million shares from 457.7 million friday .
prices on the frankfurt stock exchange tumbled in heavy trading .
the decline in the german stock index of 203.56 points , or 12.8 % , to 1385.72 was the frankfurt market 's steepest fall ever .
retail investors dumped holdings on a massive scale , pushing down as much as 20 % some blue-chip shares .
analysts cited memories of two years ago , many small investors when held on to their shares after the october crash but the west german market continued to decline steeply for the next three months .
to make them directly comparable , each index is based on the close of 1969 equaling 100 .
the percentage change is since year-end .
frank lloyd wright is reported to have said once that if you tipped the world on its side , everything loose would end up in california .
we have always thought that mr. wright underestimated california 's vitality , but the state 's la-la factions maybe is starting to overwhelm the forces that made it such a significant place .
if passed by the voters , the recently announced initiative would phase out major pesticides , reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40 % , ban new offshore drilling , ban chemicals thought to deplete the ozone layer , and create a new state environmental officer armed with a $ 40 million budget to sue any firm or agency he think is being too dirty .
the initiative is based largely on the wish-lists of the green lobby : the sierra club , the league of conservation voters , the natural resources defense council , the national toxics campaign and the citizens for a better environment .
the environmental defense fund interestingly , is having nothing to do with this one .
not only californians but all americans would pay if this thing passed .
the initiative bar the sale of any crops in california that do n't meet the initiative 's standards .
kansas wheat farmers and florida fruit growers would have to adjust or give up the california market .
in other words , california is presuming to take control of the nation 's farm policy .
as usual the green lobby 's proposal is disconnected from scientific reality .
the proposed initiative would mandate a reduction of carbon dioxide of 40 % .
if one even buys into the whole greenhouse theory , it is inconceivable that reductions in a single state could have any impact on what is billed as a global problem .
under these circumstances the first place to look is at the ways in which the sponsors themselves will benefit .
here the key is the ambition of state attorney general john van de kamp .
he be running for governor .
mr. van de kamp is the one who collected the plans from the various radical environmental groups and cobbled them into a single unwieldy initiative to be placed on the ballot for election on nov. 6 , 1990 .
that be also the day of the gubernatorial election .
the initiative seem to have been crafted to include all the hot issues that set off the wealthy hollywood weepers who donate money .
and it allow mr. van de kamp to get around campaign spending limits .
he can spend the legal maximum for his campaign ; all the spending for the van de kamp initiative ( on which no limits there is ) is gravy .
this initiative is being labeled the big green , but it maybe should be called the big greenback .
( the republican candidate , sen. pete wilson , is playing too , the initiative fundraising game sponsoring his own crime initiative ) .
while it is possible that the big green initiative will be ruled unconstitutional , it is of course conceivable that in modern california it could slide through .
this is the state that recently passed the prop. 65 anti-toxic initiative .
if this new proposal ever do become law , the green lobby will benefit directly .
the initiative create a free floating state environmental officer to sue companies or government agencies that do things he do n't like .
that mean the nrdc and such groups no longer would have to spend as much money on litigation ; taxpayers would bear the cost .
mr. van de kamp and his allies may be hoping that the environment is such a mom and apple-pie issue among certain segments of california 's population now that almost any collection of anti-scientific , anti-pocketbook nonsense can pass under its rubric .
of course the state 's liberals is not yet a nation unto themselves .
for example , george bush , may decide that he to be the president who lost control of interstate commerce to an attorney general from california do n't want .
and some other segments of california 's political and media culture may yet start to point out that the initiative would impose significant costs on the state 's less affluent citizens in the form of higher food prices and lost jobs .
this grandiose initiative will help california define itself for the future either as a state still tethered to economic and scientific reality , or as one being led its la-la activists to wherever want to take it .
a death watch first , there was .
spurred by waves of large-scale buying in blue-chip stocks , the dow jones industrial average rallied yesterday and erased about a half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , gaining 88.12 to 2657.38 .
it was the fourth-biggest advance for the average of 30 blue chips , on frenetic new york stock exchange volume of 416,290,000 shares -- the highest since the days after the 1987 crash .
while the advance cheered investors who feared a 1987-style crash would occur yesterday , it was strictly a big-stock rally fed by huge buying by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
a troubling sign : declining stocks on the big board outnumbered 975 to 749 , advancers , and the over-the-counter market that include many smaller stocks suffered aftershocks of friday 's late big board plunge .
the nasdaq otc index closed down 6.31 to 460.98 .
in a divergence in two of the market 's most important indicators , the dow industrials ' sister average , the 20-stock dow jones transportation average , meanwhile , tumbled 102.06 to 1304.23 -- its second-worst decline next to the 164.78-point fall during the 1987 crash .
transports plunged on takeover disappointments in two airline stocks , ual and amr , which each fell more than 20 % they when reopened for trading yesterday after being suspended friday afternoon .
ual , the takeover stock at the center of friday 's 190.58-point market plunge , fell 56 7/8 to 222 7/8 on nearly 2.3 million shares .
arthur cashin jr. , a veteran painewebber inc. trader at the big board said overall , `` this is a pleasant rally but it be very selective , '' .
`` a little everyone was concerned about the general narrowness of the rally and failure of the otc market to get into plus territory .
it be just a strange feeling .
i do n't think anyone left the place whistling dixie '' .
the rally gave at least for now , credence , to the pre-trading declaration of big board chairman john j. phelan jr. that friday 's market debacle was `` an abnormal condition , and not a disaster '' .
but to traders , it looked like disaster on the 9:30 a.m. opening bell .
the dow jones industrial average opened down 1.64 shortly after 9:30 .
at 9:45 , procter & gamble -- one of the most important dow bellwethers of late -- opened down 2 3/4 to 117 .
the dow dropped to a quick 27-point loss , and to many traders it looked as if stocks was headed for yet another big tumble .
more stocks opened over the ensuing half hour , as the 49 big board specialist firms in charge of keeping the market orderly groped to find buy orders from major brokerage firms to match the selling flood .
to make matters worse , computerized sell programs then , kicked in , hammering stocks into steeper losses .
heavy stock-index arbitrage , there was as traders sold big baskets of stock and bought stock-index futures to profit from the price discrepancies between the two markets .
this was a hangover from friday , standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures when had closed at a sharp discount to stocks .
the onslaught of the program selling dashed any hopes that some of the big program trading firms would hold off until the market stabilized .
they did n't .
the dow accelerated its slide , losing 63.52 in the first 40 minutes of trading .
with program traders seemingly in charge , buyers backed away from the market and watched stocks fall .
at 10:15 the dow then suddenly started to rebound , and it when shot upward it did so even faster than the early-morning fall .
and this time , it was n't just the program traders who were responsible .
all the selling had pushed stocks to such cheap values that big investment banks and major money management firms started buying heavily stocks .
the program traders was in there , too , of course .
but according to one trader , `` the programmers did n't look as dominant on the upside as on the downside because a lot of bargain-hunting by institutions there was also -lcb- -rcb- '' .
roland m. machold , director of the new jersey division of investment , which oversee $ 29 billion in investments , said `` the first thing we did was to double our orders yesterday morning '' .
`` with the market down like this , we 'll probably take another $ 50 million and put it in the market '' .
trading in walt disney co. particularly caught traders ' eyes .
according to big board officials , disney had one of the biggest sell-order imbalances on friday ; it was one of the seven stocks that could n't finish trading that day .
the stock opened late down 8 1/2 at 114 1/2 , .
traders said but it then shot upward 7 1/2 as goldman , sachs & co. stepped in and bought , .
disney specialist robert fagenson however , said `` i would be surprised if goldman represented 4 % of the opening volume '' : .
around wall street , trading desks was relieved that they could at least play the market yesterday , in contrast to friday 's gridlock .
at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette inc. , head equity trader dudley eppel said `` i think the opening was constructive : .
it was orderly .
we put together some orders .
not like friday they where just took apart the market -lcb- -rcb- . ''
the market still , had n't yet crossed into positive territory , and traders was glum .
but in another dramatic burst , the dow tacked on 42 points in five minutes , and at 10:25 the index showed a gain of 5.74 .
on the big board floor and on trading desks , traders yelped their approval .
griffith peck , a trader in shearson lehman hutton inc. 's otc department grinned `` i tell you , this market act healthy '' : .
around him , scores of traders seemed to get a burst of energy ; their boss broke out bottles of perrier water to cool off them .
among big board specialists , the cry was `` pull your offers '' -- meaning that specialists soon expected to get higher prices for their shares .
one big board specialist said `` it was bedlam on the upside , '' .
but not everybody was making money .
the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options was halted friday .
many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract had bullish positions friday , and the shutdown when came they was frozen with huge losses .
over the weekend , clearing firms told the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning .
one chicago-based options trader said `` they was absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' .
some traders said that the closely watched major market index , whose 20 stocks mimic the dow industrials , did n't lead yesterday 's big rally .
james gallagher , a partner at specialist fowler & rosenau , said `` `` the difference between today and two years ago -- `` terrible tuesday , '' oct. 20 , 1987 -- '' is that we then needed a savior to go into the major market index , spend $ 2 million and get the program rally started , .
this time -lcb- -rcb- institutions saw the programs coming and backed away and backed away .
when the market was at a technical level to buy , they then came in with a vengeance '' .
however , according to one analyst , just before the turnaround the timing of major market index futures buying was similar to that of terrible tuesday .
donald selkin , head of stock-index futures research at prudential-bache securities inc said `` futures was pulling higher , the stock market '' .
although the big board 's specialist firms struggled through another highly volatile trading session , yesterday their performance was better than during friday 's late-afternoon chaos , according to traders and brokers who work with them .
specialists was criticized for their inability to maintain orderly markets during the friday plunge .
but yesterday , even with halts in such major blue-chip stocks as merck , `` we expected the halts ( ) and it was n't too bad , '' donaldson 's mr. eppel , who had been critical of the specialists ' performance on friday said .
according to a big board official , while many stocks opened late , subsequent trading halts there was in only three issues -- amr , merck and valero energy .
merck is one of the most important stocks in the major market index .
no sector of the market have been spared during the past two days ' gyrations .
from the dow industrials ' high on oct. 9 through friday 's plunge , relatively good performances yet have been turned in by real-estate , utilities , precious metals and life insurance stocks .
and yesterday , the top performing industry group was oil field equipment issues .
for example , halliburton jumped 3 1/4 to 38 , schlumberger rose 2 1/2 to 43 1/4 and baker hughes rose 1 1/8 to 22 .
because of the ual and amr tumbles , airlines was the weakest sector of the market yesterday .
philip morris was the big board 's most active issue , rising 2 1/4 to 43 1/4 on nearly eight million shares .
among other major issues , coca-cola co. closed up 2 at 66 3/4 on 1.7 million shares and american telephone & telegraph rose 3 1/4 to 43 on nearly 7.8 million shares .
shares of international business machines , which reported earnings yesterday , finished up 1 , at 103 , after slipping below 100 during friday 's session for the first time in five years .
shares of three brokerage firms rose after they reported earnings .
merrill lynch added 1 3/4 to 28 , painewebber rose 3/4 to 18 1/2 and bear stearns rose 3/8 to 14 1/4 .
federal national mortgage association , a recently hot stock , climbed 4 to 124 on nearly 1.6 million shares .
at a news conference after the close of trading yesterday , the big board 's mr. phelan and other exchange officials praised the performance of their computers and personnel .
mr. phelan said that program trading strategies was n't responsible for triggering friday 's decline despite a jump in the use of the computer-driven strategies in recent months .
he said some 24 million of the more than 100 million shares traded in the final 90 minutes of friday 's session , the plunge in stock prices when was concentrated , were program-related , .
program trades make up 10 % of the exchange 's volume on an average day , but mr. phelan said despite the increase friday , it was `` certainly not something you would say precipitated the market decline , '' .
mr. phelan expressed relief that the market rebounded yesterday .
he said `` every time we get this kind of reaction , it obviously , be going to make everybody nervous , including me , '' .
he said that exchange officials had conversations with wall street firms throughout the weekend and that `` all the participants behaved very , very responsibly today '' .
peter dapuzzo , shearson 's head of retail equity trading , meanwhile , praised institutional investors in the otc market , who were heavy buyers of the nasdaq 's biggest technology issues yesterday amid a flood of selling by other investors .
mr. dapuzzo said `` the institutions ca n't be criticized for their behavior , '' in an interview .
`` it was the opposite of what happened on oct. 19 .
they used their judgment .
they instead , bought which kept the market orderly on weakness and sold into the strength , .
they maybe learned from experience '' .
mr. phelan said the performance of specialists during friday 's plunge was admirable , because out of 1,640 big board common stocks traded during the day only seven were closed and were n't reopened before the close .
mr. phelan said `` they did an excellent job , '' of the specialists .
on friday wall street traders had complained about the trading suspensions .
james a. white and sonja steptoe contributed to this article .
west germany 's green party joined its ideological soulmates jeremy rifkin and the christic institute in the legal battle to ground the atlantis shuttle and its plutonium-powered galileo probe to jupiter .
the anti-defense greens wanted a washington federal appeals court to block long enough for them to ask the world court `` to order a permanent cancellation of the $ 1.5 billion flight '' today 's scheduled liftoff .
yesterday a three-judge appeals panel refused to comply , though liberal judge pat wald went to deny that this was a `` frivolous '' case out of her way .
of course it was .
nasa should now sue for fines against all three politico-plaintiffs , foreign and domestic , for bringing this mischievous case .
a house-senate conference approved a permanent smoking ban on all domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on all flights of six hours or less to alaska and hawaii .
the restrictions would cover all but a small percentage of domestic air traffic , and represent a major expansion of the current smoking ban on flights of two hours or less .
the exemption allowed on longer flights to alaska and hawaii appear to be largely a face-saving concession for the traditionally powerful tobacco industry , which have found itself increasingly isolated in the face of public pressure in recent years .
by a 6-4 margin , house negotiators initially rejected a senate provision covering all domestic flights last night .
but the six-hour compromise was soon agreed to in subsequent discussions .
as a practical matter , flights from the west coast to hawaii would be covered as they is under the time limit , but the language would exempt longer routes beginning , for example , in chicago or on the east coast .
within the senate , the ban have had aggressive support from sen. frank lautenberg ( d. , n.j. ) , who have used his position as a senate appropriations subcommittee chairman to garner votes for the initiative .
the measure is attached to the more than $ 26 billion fiscal 1990 transportation bill within mr. lautenberg 's jurisdiction , and the final compromise is laced with more than $ 205 million in road projects earmarked by members as well as funds sought by major airports , including denver .
from the outset , the tobacco industry has been uncertain as what strategy to to follow .
but the industry retain support in the house leadership through the influence of grower states , such as north carolina .
majority whip william gray owe a political debt to southern agriculture lawmakers for his rise in the house , and the philadelphia democrat used his position in the conference to salvage the exemption from a total ban .
although the smoking provision have attracted the most public interest , the underlying bill was the subject of behind-the-scenes lobbying because of its impact on air transportation and the more mundane , but politically important , projects of members .
in a stark lesson in the power of the appropriations committees , the house deliberately killed a handful of projects by lawmakers in florida , illinois and pennsylvania who had voted against the panel leadership on the house floor backed .
rep. william lehman ( d. , fla. ) , head of the house conferees said `` anybody can vote as they want , '' .
within the federal aviation administration , the final bill promise to increase spending for facilities and equipment by more than 20 % from last year , and total operations would rise to $ 3.84 billion -- a 12 % boost .
the facilities account include $ 40 million for denver 's ambitious new airport , and the competition for these funds created shifting alliances between urban lawmakers representing established airports in philadelphia and michigan and the major carriers to denver , united and continental .
leery of the costs -- and , critics say , competition -- the airlines have sought to gain leverage over the city of denver .
texas air corp. , which own continental , and the air transport association was prominent in the lobbying .
the industry sought to impose conditions that would have delayed funds for the project until denver and the airlines had agreed to leases for 50 % of the gates .
but this was rejected in favor of much looser language directing the transportation department to review the costs of the first phase , expected to cost about $ 2 billion .
though smaller in total dollars , the conference agreed to preserve an estimated $ 30.6 million in controversial subsidies to carriers serving rural or isolated airports .
the sum is more than double what the house had approved for the program , but the list of qualified airports would be cut by 22 under new distance requirements and limits on the level of subsidy .
congress previously cut six airports this year .
the impact of the changes is to eliminate many of the most excessive cases the government where have been paying more than $ 200 for each passenger in subsidies .
among rail and highway accounts , the agreement provide $ 615 million for amtrak , including $ 85 million for capital improvements .
and federal-formula grants for mass transit would be effectively frozen at $ 1.625 billion , or $ 20 million more than last fiscal year .
enjoying several blockbuster movie hits including `` batman , '' los angeles-based guber-peters entertainment co. reported earnings for the first quarter ended aug. 31 of $ 5.8 million , or 50 cents a share , compared with a year-earlier loss .
sony corp. , which has offered to acquire the movie-production company , is seeking to free its top executives , peter guber and jon peters , from an exclusive agreement with time warner inc. 's warner communications inc. so they can run columbia pictures entertainment inc .
sony two weeks ago agreed to acquire columbia for $ 3.4 billion , or $ 27 a share .
warner sued sony and guber-peters late last week ; sony and guber-peters have countersued charging warner with attempting to interfere in sony 's acquisition of the two companies , .
guber-peters 's net income in the latest quarter compared with a net loss of $ 6.9 million , or 62 cents a share , in the year-earlier period .
the company said revenue rose 138 % , to $ 10.9 million from $ 4.6 million , reflecting the success of its movies `` gorillas in the mist '' and `` rainman , '' as well as the box-office smash `` batman .
a group including jon m. huntsman of salt lake city , said it boosted its stake in aristech chemical corp. to 8.36 % of the the common shares outstanding .
as previously reported , huntsman holdings corp. , owned by jon m. huntsman and other members of his family , proposed that banstar corp. , an affiliate of huntsman holdings , acquire aristech in a friendly transaction for $ 25-a-share in cash , or $ 817.5 million .
in a filing with the securities and exchange commission , the huntsman group said it control 2,720,675 aristech common shares , including 306,000 shares bought from aug. 21 to oct. 13 for $ 20 to $ 20.875 per share .
officials at aristech , based in pittsburgh , declined comment .
congress has been critical of the bush administration for not sending enough aid to poland , so it is getting ready to send its own version of a care package .
last month , the senate voted to send a delegation of congressional staffers to poland to assist its legislature , the sejm , in democratic procedures .
senator pete domenici call this effort `` the first gift of democracy . ''
the poles might do better to view it as a trojan horse .
it is the vast shadow government of 15,000 congressional staffers that helps create such legislative atrocities as the 1,376 page , 13-pound reconciliation bill that claimed to be the budget of the united states .
maybe after the staffers explain their work to the poles , they 'd be willing to come back and do the same for the american people .
waterford wedgwood plc , a financially troubled irish maker of fine crystal and wedgwood china , reported that its pretax loss for the first six months widened to 10.6 million irish punts ( $ 14.9 million ) from 5.8 million irish punts a year earlier .
the results for the half was worse than market expectations , which suggested an interim loss of around 10 million irish punts .
in a sharply weaker london market yesterday , waterford shares was down 15 pence at 50 pence ( 79 cents ) .
the company reported a loss after taxation and minority interests of 14 million irish punts , compared with a loss of 9.3 million irish punts for the year-earlier period .
any extraordinary items there was n't .
sales for the total group rose 27 % to 168.1 million irish punts compared with 132.6 million irish punts a year ago .
waterford have decided against paying an interim dividend .
waterford said the appointment of a new management team and the signing of a comprehensive labor agreement is expected to enhance the company 's long-term prospects .
the sudden `` flight to quality '' that triggered friday 's explosive bond-market rally was reversed yesterday in a `` flight from quality '' rout .
the setback , in which treasury bond prices plummeted , reflected a rebound in the stock market and profit-taking .
`` it was a pretty wild day .
our markets was closely tied to the stock market , '' joel kazis , manager of trading at smith barney , harris upham & co said .
`` friday 's flight to quality was no longer needed once the stock market found its legs , '' he said .
some fixed-income investors had expected a further drop in stock prices after the nearly 200-point drop in the dow jones industrial average on friday .
but stocks when began to climb instead , prices of treasury bonds declined .
dispatches by several investment firms advising clients to boost their stock holdings and reduce the size of their cash or bond portfolios contributing was to the selling pressure .
among the firms merrill lynch & co. and dean witter reynolds inc was .
the bond market seemed to ignore evidence that the federal reserve eased slightly credit conditions by allowing the federal funds rate to drift as low as 8 1/2 % .
the closely watched rate on federal funds , or overnight loans between banks , slid down from its perceived target level of about 9 % to about 8 3/4 % last week , .
the rate is considered an early signal of changes in fed policy .
traders said yesterday 's modest easing did n't stir much enthusiasm because it had been widely expected .
in fact , some economists contend that the latest easing started last week .
others note that some investors was disappointed because they had expected a more aggressive easing .
the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond , ended about 1 3/4 points lower , or down about $ 17.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount .
the reversal was even more evident among shorter-term treasury securities .
after treasury bill rates plummeted as much as 0.70 percentage point on friday , they gave back three-fourths of that amount yesterday .
for example , the bond-equivalent yield on three-month treasury bills , was quoted late yesterday at 7.72 % , compared with 7.16 % friday .
investment-grade corporate bonds , mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds also fell .
but prices of junk bonds , which was battered friday in near standstill trading , rebounded to post small gains after a volatile trading session .
junk bonds opened as much as four points lower but staged a modest comeback as stock prices firmed .
some traders said the high-yield market was helped by active institutional buying .
in particular , they said , firms such as first boston corp. and drexel burnham lambert inc. began making early in the session a market in junk issues prices when hit severely depressed levels .
`` i think the willingness of securities companies to make markets for high-yield issues improved the sentiment for junk bonds , '' john lonski , an economist at moody 's investors service inc said .
u.s. treasury bonds was higher in overnight trading in japan , which opened at about 7:30 p.m. edt .
for example the benchmark 30-year bond , rose one point in early japanese trading in reaction to a quick 600-point drop in the tokyo stock market .
but as japanese stocks rebounded , treasurys retreated and ended just modestly higher .
many u.s. trading operations , wanting to keep a watchful eye on japanese trading as an indication of u.s. trading where would begin , was fully staffed during the tokyo trading session .
`` most of the action was during the night session , '' michael moore , trading manager at continental bank said .
jay goldinger , who often trades overnight for capital insight inc. , beverly hills , calif. , said trading in tokyo was `` very active '' but highly volatile .
`` we went down 3/4 point in 10 minutes right before lunch , after lunch we then went up 3/4 point in 12 minutes , '' he said .
in tokyo , trading is halted during lunchtime .
tokyo 's market turned out to be a bad bellwether for u.s. trading .
the market when opened here , bonds prices fell as the stock market regained strength .
the bond market 's focus on stock activity was so strong yesterday that it overshadowed today 's slate of economic data , which include the government 's report on august u.s. merchandise trade and september industrial production .
industrial production is expected to have declined 0.2 % , according to a consensus of economists surveyed by dow jones capital markets report .
the august trade deficit is expected to have widened to $ 9.1 billion from $ 7.58 billion in july .
one new york trader , said a widening of that magnitude , is `` not a favorable number ... .
it could do damage to us '' .
agency supply meanwhile , is expected to weigh heavily on the market today the federal home loan bank when price a $ 2.3 billion offering of one-year , three-year , five-year and 10-year maturities .
tomorrow , the resolution funding corp. will provide details of its first bond issue , which is expected to total between $ 4 billion and $ 6 billion and carry a maturity greater than 20 years .
resolution funding is a division of resolution trust corp. , the new federal agency created to bail out the nation 's troubled thrifts .
and this week the tennessee valley authority plan to price a $ 3 billion offering , its first public debt borrowing in 15 years .
the new york trader said `` there 's lots of supply , '' .
`` we have a couple or three tough weeks coming '' .
prices of treasury bonds tumbled in moderate to active trading .
the benchmark 30-year treasury bond was quoted late at a price of 101 19/32 , compared with a closing price of 103 12/32 friday .
the yield on the benchmark issue rose to 7.97 % from 7.82 % .
the latest 10-year notes was quoted late at 100 3/32 for a yield of 7.97 % , compared with 101 9/32 to yield 7.84 % .
short-term interest rates fell yesterday at the government 's weekly treasury bill auction .
the average discount rate on new three-month treasury bills was 7.37 % , the lowest since the average of 7.36 % at the auction on oct. 17 , 1988 .
the average discount rate was 7.42 % on new six-month bills , the lowest since the average of 7.35 % at the auction on july 31 , 1989 .
rates is determined by the difference between the purchase price and face value .
higher bidding thus , narrow the investor 's return while lower bidding widen it .
the percentage rates is calculated on a 360-day year , while the coupon-equivalent yield is based on a 365-day year .
both issues is dated oct. 19 .
the 13-week bills mature jan. 18 , 1990 , and the 26-week bills mature april 19 , 1990 .
investment-grade corporate bonds ended one to 1 1/2 point lower .
no new issues there was .
foreign bonds surged as the dollar weakened against most major currencies .
among benchmark issues : -- japan 's no. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 ended up 1.17 point on brokers screens at 96.15 , .
the yield was 5.245 % .
-- west germany 's 6 3/4 % issue due june 1999 ended up 0.91 point to yield 6.99 % at 98.30 , .
-- britain 's 11 3/4 % bond due 2003/2007 ended 1 1/8 higher to yield 10.12 % , at 111 19/32 while the 11 3/4 % notes due 1991 rose 21/32 to 98 26/32 to yield 12.74 % .
mortgage securities gave up most of friday 's gains as active issues ended 24/32 to 30/32 point lower .
dealers said morning activity was hectic as prices dropped in response to gains in the stock market and losses in treasury securities , but trading slowed to moderate levels in the afternoon .
government national mortgage association 9 % securities for november delivery was quoted down 30/32 from friday late yesterday at 98 4/32 , ; 9 1/2 % securities was down 27/32 at 100 5/32 ; and 10 % securities was at 102 2/32 , off 24/32 .
federal home loan mortgage corp. 9 % securities was at 97 1/4 , down 3/4 .
on friday , mortgage issues gained as much as 1 5/32 .
late yesterday ginnie mae 9 % securities was yielding 9.39 % to a 12-year average life assumption , as the spread above the treasury 10-year note narrowed 0.01 percentage point to 1.42 .
traders said some busy dealings in freddie mac and federal national mortgage association securities there was because underwriters from last week 's heavy slate of real estate mortgage investment conduit issues moved to gather collateral for new deals .
continued heavy sales by mortgage originators , which is producing increased amounts of fixed-rate mortgage-backed issues with lower rates offsetting was the remic-related purchases .
no new-issue activity there was in the derivative market .
rebounding stocks and weaker treasury prices drove 1/4 to 3/4 point lower municipal bonds in late dealings .
the session losses left municipal dollar bonds close they to where was before the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average friday prompted a capital markets rally .
trading was hectic during the morning , with players trying to gauge whether equities would continue friday 's free fall or stabilize after a brief spot of weakness .
tax-exempts started the session flat to a touch higher on anticipation of further stock market erosion , but bond prices rapidly turned south as it became more clear that a repeat of the october 1987 crash was n't at hand .
professionals dominated municipal trading throughout the session .
traders said retail investors seemed to be hugging the sidelines until a measure of volatility is wrung out of the market .
new jersey turnpike authority 's 7.20 % issue of 2018 was off 3/4 at 98 1/2 bid , yielding up 0.07 percentage point from late friday 7.32 % , .
florida board of education 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2023 was 5/8 point weaker at 99 1/2 bid .
the 7 1/8 % issue of triborough bridge and tunnel authority of new york , due 2019 , was off 5/8 at 98 1/8 bid .
and fairfax county , va. , water authority 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2027 was down 3/4 at 99 7/8 bid .
serial bond yields was up about 0.05 percentage point .
bma corp. , kansas city , mo. , said it be weighing `` strategic alternatives , '' for its business men 's assurance co. unit , and is contacting possible buyers of the life and health insurance operation .
a bma spokesman said `` runaway medical costs '' have made health insurance `` a significant challenge , '' and margins also have been pinched by changes in the mix of life-insurance products consumers now demand .
the spokesman said the business men 's assurance unit represented about $ 288 million of the company 's $ 488 million in 1988 revenue , and the unit 's operating income was about $ 10 million , .
bma 's investment banker , alex . brown & sons inc. , have been authorized to contact possible buyers for the unit .
laidlaw transportation ltd. said it raised its stake in adt ltd. of bermuda to 29.4 % from 28 % .
a spokesman for laidlaw declined to disclose the price the toronto transportation and waste services concern paid for the additional shares , which he said were acquired `` over the last couple of weeks . ''
the spokesman said laidlaw because of british takeover regulations that require a company acquiring more than 30 % to extend an offer to the rest of the company 's shareholders would n't increase its stake in adt beyond 30 % `` without a great deal of thought '' .
adt , a security services and auctions company , trade on london 's stock exchange .
laidlaw is 47%-controlled by canadian pacific ltd. , a montreal transportation , resources and industrial holding concern .
nintendo co. , a japanese maker of video games , electronic information systems and playing cards , posted a 23 % unconsolidated surge in pretax profit to 61.41 billion yen ( $ 429 million ) from 50 billion yen ( $ 349.9 million ) for the fiscal year ended aug. 31 .
sales surged 40 % to 250.17 billion yen from 178.61 billion .
net income rose 11 % to 29.62 billion yen from 26.68 billion .
without detailing specific product breakdowns , nintendo credited its bullish upsurge in sales -- including advanced computer games and television entertainment systems -- to surging `` leisure-oriented '' sales in foreign markets .
for instance , export sales for leisure items alone , totaled up from 106.06 billion in the previous fiscal year 184.74 billion yen in the 12 months , .
however , domestic leisure sales , was lower .
hertz corp. of park ridge , n.j. , said it retained merrill lynch capital markets to sell its hertz equipment rental corp. unit .
`` no pressing need to sell the unit , there is but we is doing it so we can concentrate on our core business , renting automobiles in the u.s. and abroad , '' william slider , hertz 's executive vice president said .
`` we is only going to sell at the right price '' .
hertz equipment had operating profit before depreciation of $ 90 million on revenue of $ 150 million in 1988 .
the closely held hertz corp. had annual revenue of close to $ 2 billion in 1988 , of which $ 1.7 billion was contributed by its hertz rent a car operations world-wide .
hertz equipment is a major supplier of rental equipment in the u.s. , france , spain and the u.k .
it supply commercial and industrial equipment including earth-moving , aerial , compaction and electrical equipment , compressors , cranes , forklifts and trucks .
interspec inc. reported a net loss of $ 2.4 million for the fiscal third quarter ended aug. 31 .
it said the loss resulted from startup and introduction costs related to a new medical ultrasound equipment system .
in the year-earlier quarter , the company reported net income of $ 955,000 , or 15 cents a share .
the manufacturer of ultrasound diagnostic systems , based in ambler , pa. , reported a nine-month net loss of $ 2.43 million compared with net income of $ 2.71 million , or 44 cents a share , for the nine-month period a year earlier .
in over-the-counter trading , interspec fell 37.5 cents to $ 4.25 .
richard p. simmons , chairman and chief executive officer , told allegheny ludlum corp. expect to report third-quarter net of about $ 34 million , or $ 1.50 a share , down from $ 38.4 million , or $ 1.70 a share , a year earlier , institutional investors in new york .
he said sales for the pittsburgh-based producer of specialty steels and other materials fell to about $ 265 million in the third quarter from $ 320.5 million a year earlier , .
he said the third-quarter estimate indicate profit for the nine months of $ 4.65 a share , `` almost equal to the full-year 1988 earnings of $ 108.6 million , or $ 4.81 a share '' .
mr. simmons said the third-quarter results reflect continued improvements in productivity and operating margins .
he said capital spending next year will rise to about $ 45 million from about $ 35 million this year .
u.s. banknote co. said it again extended the expiration date of its $ 7-a-share tender offer for international banknote co. to nov. 15 .
u.s. banknote said it is in negotiations to sell `` certain facilities , '' which it did n't name , to a third party , and it need the extension to try to reach a definitive agreement on the sale .
u.s. banknote said it believe if completed , the sale , apparently would satisfy antitrust issues raised by the u.s. justice department about u.s. banknote 's offer to buy international banknote .
u.s. banknote said `` there can be no assurance '' a sale agreement would be concluded .
it also said the tender offer would probably have to be extended further to complete financing arrangements .
u.s. banknote said citibank extended the expiration date of its commitment for senior secured financing to nov. 15 .
the offer , made june 1 , have been extended several times .
closely held u.s. banknote offered the $ 7 a share , or $ 126 million , for as many as 14.9 million shares , or 78.6 % , of international banknote 's shares outstanding .
u.s. banknote said that as of oct. 13 , 16.1 million shares , or about 84.3 % of the fully diluted shares outstanding , had been tendered .
gitano group inc. said it agreed to buy 50 % of regatta sport ltd. , a closely held apparel maker , with the assumption of $ 3 million of contingent debt .
under the terms of the contract , new york-based gitano have the option to acquire the remaining 50 % of regatta , a maker of men 's and women 's clothes sold primarily in department stores , under certain conditions .
that 50 % by clifford parker , regatta 's president and chief executive officer , who will continue to manage regatta 's operations under gitano is now held .
mr. parker said in 1989 , regatta will have sales `` in excess of $ 10 million '' and will show a profit , .
gitano , which make budget-priced apparel sold mainly through mass merchandisers like k mart and wal-mart , said the regatta acquisition will enhance its strategy to expand into department stores .
this fall , gitano began manufacturing moderately priced clothes aimed at department stores under the gloria vanderbilt trademark , which gitano recently acquired .
enron corp. , houston , said the sale of preference units of its newly formed enron ngl partners l.p. master limited partnership subsidiary will result in an undetermined gain in the fourth quarter .
in the year-ago quarter , the natural gas concern had net income of $ 25.2 million , or 34 cents a share , on revenue of about $ 1.46 billion .
those results included a $ 2.7 million charge related to the retirement of debt .
in a related move , enron said it increased the number of the partnership 's units it will offer to 6,930,000 from 5,500,000 .
the old and revised numbers both include over-allotment provisions .
enron said each unit will be priced in the $ 19-to-$21 range and will represent about 80 % of the partnership equity .
net proceeds from the offering is expected to be close to $ 200 million .
goldman , sachs & co. , and drexel burnham lambert inc. is lead underwriters .
arthur m. goldberg said he extended his unsolicited tender offer of $ 32 a share tender offer , or $ 154.3 million , for di giorgio corp. to nov. 1 .
dig acquisition corp. , the new jersey investor 's acquisition vehicle , said that as of the close of business yesterday , 560,839 shares had been tendered .
including the stake dig already held , dig hold a total of about 25 % of di giorgio 's shares on a fully diluted basis .
the offer , which also include common and preferred stock purchase rights , was to expire last night at midnight .
the new expiration date is the date on which dig 's financing commitments , which total about $ 240 million , is to expire .
dig is a unit of dig holding corp. , a unit of rose partners l.p .
mr. goldberg is the sole general partner in rose partners .
in august , di giorgio , a san francisco food products and building materials marketing and distribution company , rejected mr. goldberg 's offer as inadequate .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , di giorgio closed down $ 1.75 at $ 31.50 a share , .
after years of fading into the background , two-tone photography is coming back .
trendy magazine advertisements feature stark black-and-white photos of hollywood celebrities pitching jeans , shoes and liquor .
portrait studios accustomed to shooting only in color report a rush to black-and-white portrait orders .
and black-and-white photography classes is crowded with students .
on seventh avenue , designers have been advancing the monochrome look with clothing collections done entirely in black and white .
and classic black-and-white movies is enjoying a comeback on videocassette tapes , spurred , in part , by the backlash against colorization of old films .
`` the pendulum is swinging back to black and white , '' richard demoulin , the general manager of eastman kodak co. 's professional photography division say .
until two years ago , sales of black-and-white film had been declining steadily since the 1960s .
but last year , buoyed by increased use in advertising and other commercial applications , sales increased 5 % , and they is expected to jump again at least that much this year .
photographic companies is scrambling to tap the resurging market , reviving some black-and-white product lines and developing new ones .
at kodak , which largely ignored the market for years , black-and-white film sales now account for nearly 15 % of the company 's $ 3 billion in film and paper sales annually , up from 10 % three years ago .
the rochester , n.y. , photographic giant recently began marketing t-max 3200 , one of the fastest and most sensitive monochrome films .
aimed at commercial photographers , the film can be used in very low light without sacrificing quality , donald franz of photofinishing newsletter say .
agfa corp. , a unit of bayer ag also trying is to snare a portion of the $ 2 billion-a-year industry .
agfa recently signed olympic gold medalist florence griffith-joyner to endorse a new line of black-and-white paper that 's geared to consumers and will compete directly with kodak 's papers .
slated for market by the end of the year , `` the paper could have been introduced a long time ago but the market was n't there then , '' an agfa spokesman say .
the biggest beneficiary of the black-and-white revival is likely to be international paper co. 's ilford division , known in the industry for its premium products .
this year sales of ilford 's four varieties of black-and-white film is outpacing growth in the overall market , although the company wo n't say by exactly how much .
`` we hope the trend last , '' laurie dicara , ilford 's marketing communications director say .
for baby boomers who grew up being photographed in color , black and white seem eye-catching and exotic .
`` it have an archival , almost nostalgic quality to it , '' owen b. butler , the chairman of the applied photography department at rochester institute of technology say .
`` you can shift out of reality with black and white , '' he add .
such features have been especially attractive to professional photographers and marketing executives , who have been steadily increasing their use of black and white in advertising .
consider gap inc. , whose latest ad campaign feature black-and-white shots of hollywood stars , artists and other well-known personalities modeling the retailer 's jeans and t-shirts .
richard crisman , the account manager for the campaign , say gap did n't intentionally choose black and white to distinguish its ads from the color spreads of competitors .
`` we wanted to highlight the individual , not the environment , '' he say , `` and '' black and white allow you to do better than color that .
the campaign won a cleo award as this year 's best ad by a specialty retailer .
even food products and automobiles , which have long depended on color , is making the switch .
`` companies feel black and white will convey a stronger statement , '' marc l. hauser , a chicago photographer who is working on a black-and-white print ad for stouffer food corp. 's lean cuisine say .
other companies that is currently using two-tone ads include american express co. and epson america inc .
portrait studios have also latched onto the trend .
using black and white , `` we can make housewives look like stars , '' john perrin say .
his on-broadway photography studio in portland , ore. , doubled its business last year and , he say , is booked solid for the next five .
one customer , dayna brunsdon , say she spurned a color portrait for black and white because `` it be more dramatic .
i show it to my friends , and they all say wow ` ' .
it is n't ordinary like color . ''
most consumers still , is n't plunking black-and-white film into their cameras to take family snapshots .
one big obstacle is that few drugstores develop anymore the film .
it typically , must be mailed to a handful of processors and may take to be processed and returned a week or more .
black-and-white film cost a little less than color film , consumers and processing cost the same .
but for photofinishers , developing costs for black-and-white film is higher .
some companies is starting to tackle that problem .
for example , ilford , recently introduced a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs .
the company is also increasing intent on wooing customers , its sponsorship of black-and-white photography classes .
agfa similarly , is sponsoring scores of photography contests at high schools and colleges , offering free black-and-white film and paper as prizes .
and kodak is distributing an instructional video to processors on how to develop more efficiently its monochrome film .
other companies is introducing related products .
charles beseler co. , a leading maker of photographic enlargers , introduced a complete darkroom starter kit at teen-agers who want to process their own black-and-white photographs targeted last month .
the kit , which have a suggested retail price of $ 250 and has already become a bestseller , was introduced after retailers noticed numerous requests from parents for children 's photography equipment .
`` it seem computers as hobbies have waned , '' ian brightman , beseler 's chairman and chief executive officer say .
but some industry observers believe the resurgence of black and white is only a fad .
they cite the emergence of still electronic photography , more newspapers turning to color on their pages and measurable improvements in the quality of color prints .
mr. butler of the rochester institute say `` black and white have n't made the same quantum leaps in technological development as color , '' .
`` today the color print is far superior to prints of 10 years ago .
but popular photography , a leading magazine for photographers , when selected 15 of the greatest photos ever made for its latest issue celebrating photography 's 150th anniversary , all were black and white .
alfred debat of professional photographers of america say `` it be got a classic spirit and carry over emotionally , '' .
`` that be the appeal .
mcclatchy newspapers inc. said improvements in advertising and subscription revenue led to a 21 % gain in third-quarter profit to $ 8.8 million , or 31 cents a share , from $ 7.2 million , or 25 cents a share .
sales rose more than 7 % to $ 94.9 million from $ 88.3 million .
the sacramento , calif. , company also attributed improved performance to a lower effective tax rate and higher interest income .
for the nine months , the newspaper chain had almost a 23 % increase in profit to $ 23.6 million , or 83 cents a share , from $ 19.2 million , or 68 cents a share .
sales grew almost 7 % to $ 279.1 million from $ 261.3 million .
mcclatchy publish the sacramento ( calif . ) bee and tacoma ( wash . ) news tribune , and other papers in western states .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , the company closed down 25 cents at $ 25.25 a share , .
agip s.p . a. and societe national elf aquitaine , the state oil companies of italy and france , respectively , submitted an offer to buy gatoil suisse s.a .
the price was n't disclosed .
a spokesman for gatoil said that the swiss oil concern was examining the offer , submitted last friday , along with two other offers , also submitted last week .
those two offers was private and the spokesman refused to identify the bidding companies .
the spokesman further said that at least two more offers is expected from other companies within two weeks .
gatoil suisse own an oil refinery in switzerland with a capacity of 70,000 barrels a day , along with a network of gasoline retailing outlets .
while friday 's plunging stock market prompted new fears about the economy 's prospects , a little-known indicator that have faithfully foreshadowed the economy 's ups and downs by exceptionally long lead times point to a sustained rise in overall business activity .
the barometer , developed here , by analysts at columbia university 's center for international business cycle research reached a record high of 223.0 in august , the latest month available , and the columbia researchers estimate that it have moved even higher since then .
the latest reading of 223.0 was up from 222.3 in july and 215.3 as recently as march .
the august rise marked the fifth straight monthly gain for the indicator , which use the 1967 average as a base of 100 .
in contrast , while up in august , the commerce department 's widely followed index of leading indicators , have fallen repeatedly since reaching a high early this year .
its ragged behavior through much of 1989 have prompted some forecasters to anticipate the start of a new recession perhaps before year 's end .
but `` the far stronger showing of the columbia index make a recession any time soon highly unlikely , '' geoffrey h. moore , the director of the columbia facility say .
a leading authority on the business cycle , also mr. moore is a member of the business cycle dating group , the panel of private economists that decide for the government expansions and recessions when begin and end .
the group normally convene a change in the economy 's general course only when seem likely .
`` no meeting is scheduled because the expansion show no sign of going off the tracks , '' mr. moore report .
based largely on the recent strength in their index , called the long leading indicator , the columbia analysts foresee uninterrupted economic growth through the rest of this year and next year as well .
they expect a 2.6 % rise in 1990 in the gross national product , after adjustment for inflation .
the index 's longstanding ability to signal recessions or recoveries , as the case may be , by substantially greater periods than the commerce department 's index of leading indicators underlying is this optimism .
over the full post-world war ii era , on the average , the columbia index , have entered sustained declines 14 months before the onset of recessions and turned up eight months before recoveries .
the comparable lead times for the commerce index , whose components include the stock market , is far shorter -- 10 months before recessions and only three months before recoveries .
the columbia economists also have reconstructed the long leading index before the stock market crash in october that ushered in the great depression how would have behaved , it had existed , in 1929 , .
the indicator reached a peak in january 1929 and then fell steadily up to and through the crash .
`` it was an entirely different pattern from what we 're seeing now , '' mr. moore say .
in august , the bond measure was at its highest monthly average since early 1987 .
it also rose last friday , while the stock market sagged .
other components of the long leading indicator include a ratio of prices to unit labor costs in manufacturing industries , the m2 version of the money supply , adjusted for inflation , and the volume of new home-building permits .
notably absent from the columbia index the stock market , which mr. moore say `` is simply no longer such a good indicator of the economy 's long-range prospects , though still it is useful for anticipating some short-run twists and turns '' is .
the stock market -- as reflected in the standard & poor 's index of 500 common stocks -- as recently as 1975 , was rated by the national bureau of economic research as the best of the 12 leading indicators that then made up the commerce index .
it was assigned a mark of 80 out of a possible 100 , compared with scores ranging as low as 69 for the other components .
the stock market have lost some precursory power , analysts at the columbia center claim , because of the growing impact of international developments .
`` stocks have become more sensitive to factors not directly tied to the domestic economy , '' mr. moore say citing the exchange rate for the dollar on currency markets , the foreign-trade balance and inflows of foreign capital , .
he also feel that the rise of such computer-based practices as program trading have diminished the stock market 's relevancy to the economic outlook .
bsn s.a. , a leading french food group , said it agreed to acquire birkel g.m.b . h. , a west german pasta maker .
the value of the acquisition was n't disclosed .
the move is in line with bsn 's strategy of gradually building its share of the european pasta market through external growth .
bsn will initially acquire a 15 % interest in birkel , a closely held concern .
the french group have an agreement giving the right to buy all the shares outstanding , it and this could be completed within a few months , a bsn spokeswoman said .
bsn said the takeover was submitted for approval by the west german cartel office , .
birkel is west germany 's second-biggest producer of pasta , with sales of 250 million marks ( $ 133.4 million ) in 1988 .
it have 750 workers at three production units in southwest germany , and is that nation 's leading producer of pasta sauces .
the acquisition strengthen bsn 's position in the european pasta market .
the french group currently rank second after barilla group of italy , whose sales is chiefly in the italian market .
moody 's investors service inc. said it reduced its rating on $ 281 million of senior and subordinated debt of this thrift holding company , to c from ca , saying it believe bondholders will recover only `` negligible principal '' .
the agency said it confirmed american continental 's preferred stock rating at c .
american continental 's thrift unit , los angeles-based lincoln savings & loan association , is in receivership and the parent company have filed for protection from creditor lawsuits under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code .
moody 's investors service inc. downgraded its ratings on the subordinated debt of centrust to caa from b-3 .
the rating agency also reduced the ratings for long-term deposits to b-3 from ba-3 and for preferred stock to ca from caa .
the rating agency said about $ 85 million in securities was affected .
the downgrades was prompted , moody 's said , by the continuing turmoil in the junk bond market and the suspension of dividends on centrust 's preferred stock .
moody 's also said it believed if completed , the proposed sale of 63 centrust branches to great western bank could , endanger the thrift 's funding and market position .
the stock market avoided a repeat of black monday as prices recovered from an early slide , spurred by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
the dow jones industrials closed up 88.12 points , at 2657.38 , the fourth-biggest gain ever , after being down as much as 63.52 points in the morning .
the rally erased about half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , but analysts is cautious about the market 's outlook .
the dollar also rebounded , while bond prices plummeted and treasury bill rates soared .
junk bonds also recovered somewhat , though trading remained stalled .
gold also rose .
tokyo stock prices bounced back following a 1.8 % plunge on monday in early trading tuesday .
the dollar also moved higher in tokyo .
donald trump withdrew his $ 7.54 billion offer for american air , citing the `` recent change in market conditions '' .
amr slid $ 22.125 , to $ 76.50 .
a ual group also , tried to get financing for a lower bid , possibly $ 250 a share .
ual fell $ 56.875 , to $ 222.875 .
ibm 's earnings tumbled 30 % slightly more than expected in the third quarter , .
the computer giant partly cited a stronger dollar and a delay in shipping a new high-end disk drive .
analysts is downbeat about ibm 's outlook for the next few quarters .
u.s. auto makers plan to decrease 10.4 % car production in the fourth quarter , with virtually all the decline coming from the big three .
output at japanese-owned and managed plants in the u.s. is due to rise 42 % .
budget director darman said he wo n't give much leeway in with gramm-rudman spending cuts , which took effect yesterday coping federal agencies .
darman hope to prod congress to finish a deficit plan .
the s&l bailout agency would be restricted by a new bill in it how raise capital .
the ways and means plan would create another possible obstacle to selling sick thrifts .
a natural gas rule was struck down by a federal appeals court .
the regulation had prevented pipeline firms from passing part of $ 1 billion in costs along to customers .
the supreme court agreed to decide whether a federal court may dismantle a merger that have won regulatory approval but been ruled anticompetitive in a private suit .
merrill lynch 's profit slid 37 % in the third quarter .
bear stearns posted a 7.5 % gain , while painewebber had a decline due to a year-ago gain .
blue arrow of britain plan to return to the name manpower and take a big write-off .
the moves may help the firm solidify its dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market .
j.p. morgan posted a $ 1.82 billion loss for the third quarter , reflecting a big addition to loan-loss reserves .
ncnb 's profit more than doubled .
k mart agreed to acquire pace membership warehouse for $ 322 million , expanding its presence in the growing wholesale-store business .
the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below is a guide to general levels but do n't always represent actual transactions .
reserves traded among commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $ 1 million or more .
the minimum unit is $ 100,000 .
these rate indications is n't directly comparable ; lending practices vary widely by location .
intel corp. said it reached an agreement with alliant computer systems corp. to develop software standards for intel 's i860 microprocessor .
the i860 , introduced earlier this year , is intel 's entry in the crowded market for reduced instruction set computing , or risc , computers .
intel , based in santa clara , calif. , is the market leader for traditional microprocessors with its 8086 family that form the heart of ibm-compatible personal computers .
under the agreement , intel will invest $ 3 million to acquire a 4 % stake in alliant , a maker of minisupercomputers for scientists and engineers .
alliant , based in littleton , mass. , will license its parallel-computing technologies to intel , providing a way to let many i860 microprocessors in a single computer work simultaneously on a problem users .
alliant said it plan to use the microprocessor in future products .
it declined to discuss its plans for upgrading its current product line .
omnicare inc. , which intends to expand its position in the medical and dental markets , said it acquired a cotton and gauze products division from closely held sterile products corp. for $ 8.2 million .
omnicare said it expect the division to add `` substantial sales volume '' and to make a positive contribution to our earnings in 1990 and beyond .
in 1988 the cincinnati company earned $ 3.1 million , or 32 cents a share , on revenue of $ 148.5 million .
omnicare said the division operate under the trade name acco and supply the medical and dental markets .
omnicare said the business , based in st. louis , had sales of more than $ 14 million in the fiscal year ended march 31 , .
burmah oil plc , a british independent oil and specialty chemicals marketing concern , said shv holdings n.v. of the netherlands have built up a 6.7 % stake in the company .
james alexander , a burmah spokesman , said shv had previously owned `` a little under 5 % '' of burmah for about two years .
he said the dutch company had n't notified burmah of its reason for increasing the stake , .
shv , which last year merged its north sea oil and gas operations with those of calor group plc , have been pegged by speculators as a possible suitor for burmah oil in recent weeks .
shv also own 40 % of calor .
burmah , which own the castrol brand of lubricant oils , reported a 17 % rise in net income to # 43.5 million ( $ 68.3 million ) in the first half .
j.p. industries inc. said it signed a definitive agreement to sell its builders ' hardware group to closely held nalcor inc. of beverly hills , calif .
terms was n't disclosed , but a j.p. industries spokesman said the amount j.p. industries will get for the group is `` a little better than expected by the marketplace , and the marketplace had been expecting $ 25 million to $ 30 million '' .
the group consist of weslock corp. and jpi modern inc .
j.p. industries , which is based in ann arbor , mich. , said the sale complete a previously announced program to divest itself of its hardware and plumbing supplies operations .
the company 's remaining business is the manufacture and sale of engine and transmissions products for industrial and transportation applications .
citing a $ 3.1 million provision for doubtful accounts , dallas-based national heritage inc. posted a loss for its fourth quarter ended june 30 .
the operator of nursing homes and retirement centers said a unit of troubled southmark corp. , it sustained a net loss of $ 1.6 million , or nine cents a share , compared with net income of $ 1.3 million , or eight cents a share , a year earlier .
operating revenue rose 13 % to $ 22.2 million from $ 19.7 million in the year-earlier quarter .
the company said the $ 3.1 million reserve was created to reflect doubt about the collectability of receivables owed to national heritage by some of the real estate partnerships it manage .
the company also said expenses incurred by the previous board and management in the recent contest for control was recognized primarily in the first quarter ended sept. 30 .
national heritage stock fell 12.5 cents yesterday to close at $ 1.375 a share in new york stock exchange composite trading .
united biscuits ( holdings ) plc , a british food producer , announced the creation of a european group to bring together its trading interests in the region .
the new group will comprise all of united biscuit 's manufacturing and marketing operations in the food sector apart from those based in the u.s. .
united biscuits said the combined group , which will include businesses such as mcvities biscuits and terry 's confectionery , will have annual sales of more than # 1.5 billion ( $ 2.35 billion ) and trading profit of more than # 160 million ( $ 251 million ) .
`` the new structure will enable united biscuits to focus clearly upon opportunities for planned growth during the 1990s , '' bob clarke , deputy chairman and group chief executive said .
last month , united biscuits agreed to sell its entire restaurant operations to grand metropolitan plc for # 180 million .
an american journalist now is standing trial in namibia .
this is the place that over world opinion have been celebrating in the expectation that it be going to hold an election .
the u.s. journalist 's `` crime '' was writing that the head of the commission charged with overseeing the election 's fairness , bryan o'linn , was openly sympathetic to swapo .
shortly after that , mr. o'linn had scott stanley arrested and his passport confiscated .
mr. stanley is on trial over charges that he violated a proclamation , issued by the south african administrator general earlier this year , which made a crime punishable by two years in prison for `` it any person to insult , disparate or belittle '' the election commission .
the stanley affair do n't bode well for the future of democracy or freedom of anything in namibia swapo when start running the government .
to the extent mr. stanley have done anything wrong , it may be that he is out of step with the consensus of world intellectuals that the namibian guerrillas was above all else the victims of suppression by neighboring south africa .
swapo have enjoyed favorable western media treatment since the u.n. general assembly ever declared it the `` sole , authentic representative '' of namibia 's people in
last year , the u.s. brokered a peace settlement to remove cuba 's `` afrika korps '' from angola and hold `` free and fair '' elections that would end south africa 's control of namibia .
the elections is set for nov. 7 .
in july , mr. stanley , editor of american press international , a washington d.c.-based conservative wire service , visited namibia to report on the u.n.-monitored election campaign .
he interviewed mr. o'linn , head of a commission charged with investigating electoral intimidation , and reported that mr. o'linn was openly sympathetic to swapo and indeed had defended its leaders in court .
after mr. stanley 's article was published in two namibian newspapers , mr. o'linn had brought criminal charges against their editors , publisher and lawyer .
mr. stanley was arrested along with the others and charged he when returned to namibia this month .
both the state department and the lawyers committee for freedom of the press have protested mr. stanley 's detention .
mr. stanley 's arrest is the latest in a series of incidents that threaten to derail namibia 's elections .
both south african and swapo extremists is intimidating voters .
the u.s. is in the habit of arranging peace settlements and then washing its hands over the tragic results .
it now have the chance to redress that record in namibia .
state and the human-rights community should insist that mr. stanley and his fellow defendants be released and that the united nation 's monitors make certain that mr. o'linn's commission investigate election complaints from all sides .
commodity futures prices generally reflected the stability of the stock market following its plunge friday .
yesterday , at first the stock market 's influence created nervousness .
it later , however , became more of an undercurrent than a dominating force as individual markets reacted more to their own factors .
gold , the traditional haven in times of financial crisis , continued its inverse lockstep with the dollar , rising early in the day as the currency fell , and then giving up some of its gains as the dollar recovered .
copper and crude oil reacted sharply to the concern that yesterday a crash could have a potentially devastating effect on the economy .
copper fell and showed little rebound through the day as one of the major supply problems that had been supporting prices appeared to be solved .
crude oil declined early , but as the stock market retained early gains , it , too , became stronger , ending with a small net loss .
trading in cotton and sugar was nervous and showed small declines .
in chicago , grain and soybean prices rose slightly .
livestock and meat prices , however , dropped on concern that a financial crisis would cut consumption of beef and pork .
in commodity markets yesterday : precious metals : futures prices was moderately higher as gold gave up some of its early gains and platinum behaved independently , first falling and then later rising .
silver performed quietly .
the spot october gold price rose $ 4 to $ 367.30 an ounce .
the more active december delivery gold settled with a gain of $ 3.90 an ounce at $ 371.20 , after trading as high as $ 374 .
december silver was up 2.3 cents an ounce at $ 5.163 .
platinum behaved easing early on concern over a possible weaker economy , but recovering later , as the stock market strengthened more like an industrial metal , .
gold was nowhere the spectacular performer it was two years ago on black monday .
for one thing , last friday , precious metals markets closed before the stock market went into its late-in-the-day nose dive , so it could n't react to it .
the stock market back on friday , oct. 16 , l987 , declined during the day , and gold prices surged as the stock market fell .
that day the october 1987 contract rose as much as $ 8.70 to as high as $ 471.60 , and the more deferred positions , due to mature as late as march 1989 , rose as much as $ 9.60 .
on black monday , oct. 19 , 1987 , the october contract tacked on further gains , rising to as high as $ 491.50 for a gain of almost $ 20 on top of the friday advances , before giving up almost $ 10 of that at the close .
yesterday 's october gain of $ 4 was miniscule compared with that .
one analyst , peter cardillo of josephthal & co. , new york , said the gold market already had some good price-supporting technical factors that would have caused prices to rise , with or without the stock market .
`` what the stock market did was cause the rise to take earlier than it would have happened , place '' mr. cardillo said .
he said a good chance that gold will retain its gains and rise further , there be .
he expect a drop in interest rates , which would help gold by keeping the dollar from rising .
according to mr. cardillo , the impact of the strong dollar finally , should be reflected in reduced exports in the august merchandise trade deficit , the figures when is released today .
he said be this would damaging to the dollar and supportive for gold , .
worried that friday 's 190-point stock market plunge might be a harbinger of things to come for the economy , petroleum futures traders called a halt to the recent string of increases in crude oil futures prices .
the u.s. benchmark crude , west texas intermediate , closed down 30 cents at $ 20.59 a barrel for november delivery , .
some analysts said crude was due for a correction anyhow , following several days of significant gains .
but most market observers agreed that friday 's stock market drop is what dampened spirits in the petroleum pits yesterday .
until yesterday , futures prices had been headed up on expectations that world oil demand will continue to be strong .
the organization of petroleum exporting countries increased its production ceiling for the fourth quarter based on projections of robust demand .
so any bearish indicator , such as friday 's precipitous drop in the stock market , send as well shivers through the oil markets .
after reacting early in the trading day to friday 's plummet , futures prices indeed , firmed up again as traders took note of the stock market 's partial recovery yesterday .
futures prices fell and showed little rebound as one major labor problem that had been underpinning prices appeared to be solved .
the december contract declined 3.05 cents a pound to $ 1.2745 .
prices was down from the outset of trading on concern that a drop in the stock market might create a weakened economy and a consequent reduction in copper use .
but the recovery in the stock market provided little help for copper as word spread that a three-month strike at the highland valley mine in british columbia was about over , according to an analyst .
highland valley is a large canadian producer and principal supplier to japan , which recently began seeking elsewhere copper as its inventories shrank .
last week it was reported that company and union negotiations had overcome the major hurdle , the contracting out of work by the company .
the analyst said , only minor points now , remain to be cleaned up .
he said `` for all intents and purposes , an agreement appear to have been achieved , '' .
copper inventories in new york 's commodity exchange warehouses rose yesterday by 516 tons , to 10,004 tons .
last week london metal exchange copper inventories declined 13,575 tons , to 89,300 tons .
the lme stocks decline was about as expected , but the comex gain was n't .
the analyst said this however , was brushed aside by concern over the stock market , .
at one point in futures trading , as the stock market firmed , the december contract rose to as high as $ 1.2965 , but it was n't able to sustain the gain .
`` it was simply overbought , '' he said , and by funds that computer is guided selling helped depress prices .
futures prices eased , more in reaction to hurricane jerry than to any influence of the stock market .
the december contract ended with a loss of 0.22 cent a pound , at 74.48 cents .
ernest simon , cotton specialist for prudential-bache securities , new york said technical considerations following the hurricane , which was a factor in the market friday , caused prices to decline yesterday , .
prices rose sharply friday as the storm approached texas and louisiana , which is part of the mississippi delta cotton-growing area .
mr. simon said after absorbing the potential effect of the hurricane , prices however , began to slip late friday , .
he said that selling continued yesterday and kept prices under pressure , .
mr. simon said colder weather is being predicted for the high plains of texas and the northern states of the delta during the coming weekend , .
he added that have n't yet captured traders ' attention , .
futures prices declined .
the march contract was off 0.32 cent a pound at 13.97 cents .
at one point in early trading the march price rose to as high as 14.22 cents the stock market when recovered , but the price then fell back .
one analyst said , a price-depressing factor , was that india , which had been expected to buy around 200,000 tons of sugar in the world market , did n't make any purchases .
the analyst said india recently bought 200,000 tons and was expected to buy more , .
another analyst thought that india may have pulled back because of the concern over the stock market .
judith ganes , analyst for shearson lehman hutton , new york said `` india may have felt that if a severe drop in the stock market there was and it affected sugar , it could buy at lower prices , '' .
at any rate , she added , `` india need the sugar , so it will be in sooner or later to buy it '' .
the prices of cattle and hog futures contracts dropped sharply because traders speculated that friday the stock market plunge will linger long enough to prompt them to rein their spending at the supermarket , in which would hurt demand for beef and pork in the minds of u.s. consumers .
the price of the hog contract for october delivery dropped its maximum permissible daily limit of 1.5 cents a pound .
the prices of most grain futures contracts rose slightly yesterday out of relief that the stock market was showing signs of recovering .
earlier in the session , the prices of several soybean contracts set new lows .
a broad rally began several major processors when began buying futures contracts , apparently to take advantage of the price dip .
knight-ridder inc. said it would report increased earnings per share contrary to reported analysts ' comments that the publishing company 's earnings would be down for the third quarter , .
a company spokesman said he believed the confusion was caused james batten , knight-ridder 's chairman and chief executive , when told two weeks ago new york analysts that knight-ridder 's earnings per share for the first nine months of 1989 would `` be behind a little bit '' from like period of
the knight-ridder spokesman said the third-quarter earnings the company plan that to report oct. 24 is expected to be up .
the spokesman said he was `` comfortable '' with revised analysts ' projections that the company would report earnings of between 62 cents and 64 cents a share , compared with the 53 cents a share it reported for the 1988 third quarter .
knight-ridder said it agreed with estimates that net income for all of 1989 would be around $ 2.86 a share , compared with $ 2.59 a share a year earlier .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , knight-ridder closed down 37.5 cents at $ 51.75 , .
dd acquisition corp. said it extended its $ 45-a-share offer for dunkin ' donuts inc. to nov. 1 from yesterday .
the offer have an indicated value of $ 268 million .
dd acquisition is a partnership of unicorp canada corp. 's kingsbridge capital group unit and cara operations ltd .
as previously reported , under the terms of a confidentiality agreement with dunkin ' donuts , the partners agreed to keep their offer open until nov. 1 , and not to acquire any additional shares except through a tender offer expiring on that date .
dd acquisition said that it already own 15 % of the common shares of the doughnut shop chain and that as of the close of business friday an additional 11 % had been tendered to its offer .
dunkin ' donuts is based in randolph , mass .
cara operations , a food services concern , and unicorp , a holding company with interests in oil and natural gas and financial services , is based in toronto .
golden west financial corp. , above the turbulence that have troubled most of the thrift industry , riding posted a 16 % increase of third-quarter earnings to $ 41.8 millon , or 66 cents a share .
the company earned $ 36 million , or 57 cents a share , in the year-ago quarter .
herbert m. sandler , chairman and chief executive officer of the oakland , calif. , savings-and-loan holding company , credited the high number of loans added to the company 's portfolio over the last 12 months for broadening its earning asset base and improving profit performance .
the executive however , noted that slackening demand for new mortgages depressed new loan originations to $ 1 billion , 30 % below the same period last year .
in savings activity , mr. sandler said consumer deposits have enjoyed a steady increase throughout 1989 , and topped $ 11 billion at quarter 's end for the first time in the company 's history .
deposit growth amounted to $ 393 million , more than double the year-ago figure .
whirlpool corp. , benton harbor , mich. , said it have developed a process to recover environmentally harmful chlorofluorocarbons , or cfcs , that previously entered the atmosphere during in-home repair of refrigerators and freezers .
the maker of home appliances said the process , which involve the use of a multilayer plastic bag during repairs to capture the gaseous substance and transport it to a recycling center , is already in use at a number of its service centers , and will be available to all authorized repair centers by spring .
earlier repairs vented the cfcs out of the home through a hose directly into the atmosphere .
cfcs is widely used as solvents , coolants and fire suppressants .
but their use have been linked to a potentially dangerous depletion of the earth 's ozone layer , and a number of companies is seeking to curtail use , or at least emission , of the substance .
whirpool said `` we see this process as a small but important step toward eventual elimination of cfc use in appliance manufacture , .
maxus energy corp. , dallas , said it discovered northeast of its previously discovered intan field in the southeast sumatra area of indonesia a new oil field .
maxus said it did n't run a production test on the three discovery wells it drilled in the field , which is about 1.6 miles from the intan field , because the wells is similar to others drilled at its intan and widuri fields .
maxus however , said it believe the reserves in the field is about 10 million barrels of oil .
the intan field have estimated reserves of 50 million barrels and the widuri field have estimated reserves of 225 million barrels .
maxus , an independent oil and gas concern , is the operator and own a 56 % interest in the new field , called northeast intan .
other interests is owned by bp petroleum development ( ses ) ltd. , c. itoh energy co. ltd. , deminex sumatra oel g.m.b . h. , hispanoil ( sumatra ) production ltd. , hudbay oil ( indonesia ) ltd. , inpex sumatra co. ltd. , lasmo sumatra ltd. , sunda shell , tcr sumat a.g. and warrior oil co .
the production-sharing contract area is held with pertamina , the indonesian state oil company .
environmental systems co. said it is restating its results to reduce its reported net income for the first nine months of its fiscal year after discovering it took tax credits that already had been taken last year .
the little rock , ark. , hazardous-waste services company said the restatement will reduce its net for the nine months ended july 31 to $ 2.5 million , or 17 cents a share , from $ 3.7 million , or 26 cents a share .
the company previously reported net of $ 2.3 million , or 15 cents a share .
the company said that for financial reporting purposes last year it took tax credits that will be recognized for tax purposes this year .
but because of confusion , it took again those credits in reporting its results through the first nine months .
jack w. forrest , environmental systems president and chief executive officer , said the change increase the company 's effective tax rate to about 35 % from 20 % .
memotec data inc. said it signed a definitive merger agreement with isi systems inc. under which memotec will acquire isi for $ 20 ( u.s. . ) a share , or about $ 130 million , in cash and securities .
in american stock exchange composite trading , isi closed up $ 3.125 at $ 18.625 .
in montreal exchange trading , memotec closed unchanged at 10.625 canadian dollars ( us$ 9.05 ) .
memotec said under the agreement , isi , a braintree , mass. , provider of computer software and services to the insurance industry , will merge with a u.s. unit of memotec created for that purpose .
memotec is a montreal-based maker of telecommunications products and provider of telecommunications and computer services .
memotec said the agreement call for it to make a $ 20-a-share cash tender offer for all shares outstanding of isi .
but it said charles johnston , isi chairman and president , agreed to sell his 60 % stake in isi to memotec upon completion of the tender offer for a combination of cash , memotec stock and debentures .
memotec said the tender offer is conditioned on , among other things , holders tendering at least 15 % of the shares outstanding , other than the shares held by mr. johnston .
isi said its board have instructed management to accept inquiries from any others interested in making a bid .
isi said it can withdraw from the merger agreement with memotec if a better bid surface .
cms energy corp. , jackson , mich. , said it have resumed the purchase of its common stock under a program approved by its directors in 1987 .
at the time of the original announcement , cms said its board authorized the purchase of as many as five million of its shares .
a spokesman said 2.6 million shares have been purchased since then .
the company said it will buy additional shares `` from time to time '' in the open market or in private transactions at prevailing market prices .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , cms energy closed down 62.5 cents , from the closing price of $ 37.375 a share on thursday , before friday 's plunge at $ 34.375 a share , .
the utility company currently have about 82.1 million shares outstanding .
morgan stanley & co. will act as the exclusive broker for the repurchase .
hughes aircraft co. , a unit of general motors corp. , said it agreed to purchase the electro-optics technology division of perkin-elmer corp .
terms of the agreement was n't disclosed .
but for the fiscal year ended july 31 , 1988 , the most recent period for which results was broken out , the perkin-elmer unit accounted for more than half the $ 145 million in sales recorded by the company 's government systems sector .
perkin-elmer , which is based in norwalk , conn. , said the sale of the danbury , conn. , unit is consistent with its restructuring strategy announced in april .
in addition to making electro-optical systems , the unit also make laser warning receivers .
these is used to warn pilots that a laser weapon have been focused on them aboard military helicopters .
hughes of los angeles said the perkinelmer unit 's work complement efforts by its electro-optical and data systems group , which make infrared sensors , military lasers and night vision equipment .
hughes said it expect the sale to close by year end .
the communications workers of america ratified a new regional contract and all but one of the local agreements with bell atlantic corp .
cwa 's new jersey commercial local , which represent about 2,500 service representatives and marketing employees , rejected the tentative agreement .
both the union and the regional telephone company said they was working together to resolve differences .
the new three-year contracts , which replace ones that expired aug. 5 , cover 41,000 bell atlantic employees .
the ratification follow a 23-day strike against the philadelphia-based company .
cwa and international brotherhood of electrical workers members meanwhile , remain on strike against nynex corp. , the new york-based regional phone company .
last week the unions and the company agreed to mediation .
the cwa represent 40,000 nynex workers and the ibew represent 20,000 workers .
for the moment , euphoria at least , have replaced anxiety on wall street .
the dow jones industrial average jumped sharply to close at 2657.38 , panic did n't sweep the world 's markets , yesterday and investors large and small seemed to accept friday 's dizzying 190-point plunge as a sharp correction , not a calamity .
among those sighing with relief john h. gutfreund , chairman of salomon brothers , who took to monitor yesterday 's events to the firm 's trading floor was .
as the rally gained strength at 3:15 p.m. , he smiled broadly , brandished his unlit cigar and slapped stanley shopkorn , his top stock trader , on the back .
at first , it seemed as if history might repeat itself .
as trading opened yesterday morning on the big board , stocks of many of the nation 's biggest companies could n't open for trading because a wave of sell orders was overwhelming buyers .
by 10:10 , the dow industrials was off 63.52 points , and the stock of ual corp. , whose troubles had kicked off friday 's plunge , still had n't opened .
but it then , as quickly as the dow had fallen , began to turn around .
it ended with a gain of 88.12 points .
by the market 's close , volume on the new york exchange totaled more than 416 million , the fourth highest on record .
the big board handled the huge volume without any obvious strain , in sharp contrast to black monday of 1987 .
but the rally to the blue-chip stocks , which had been hard hit during friday 's selling frenzy was largely confined .
overall , more big board stocks lost money than gained .
and many arbitragers , already reeling from friday 's collapse of the ual deal , was further hurt yesterday a proposed takeover of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines , when collapsed .
the dow jones transportation average indeed , plunged 102.06 points , its second-worst drop in history .
world-wide , trading was generally manageable .
the frankfurt stock exchange was hardest hit of the major markets , with blue chips there falling 12.8 % .
in london , a midday rally left the market 's major index off 3.2 % , and tokyo 's leading stock index fell only 1.8 % in surprisingly lackluster trading .
other , more thinly traded asian markets was hit harder than tokyo 's , but no free-fall declines there was .
investors big and small say they learned valuable lessons since the 1987 crash : in this age of computerized trading , huge corrections or runups in a few hours ' time must be expected .
what 's more , such short-term cataclysms is survivable and are no cause for panic selling .
stephen boesel , a major money manager for t. rowe price in baltimore , say `` less panic than in 1987 there was : we had been through it once '' , .
in somerset , wis. , adrian sween , who own a supplier of nursing-home equipment and is n't active in the stock market , agree .
`` i look at it as a ho-hum matter , '' he say .
many other factors played a part in yesterday 's comeback .
the federal reserve signaled its willingness to provide liquidity ; the interest rate on its loans to major banks inched downward early in the day .
foreign stock markets , which kicked off black monday with a huge selling spree , began off by relatively modest amounts the day .
after falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen , the dollar , bounced back strongly thus easing fears that foreigners would unload u.s. stocks to 141.8 , .
and the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that a crash was n't in store also helped calm investors .
for example , many major institutions , came ready to buy some of the blue chips they felt had been sharply undervalued on friday into work yesterday .
amid all the backslapping and signs of relief over yesterday 's events , some market professionals still , cautioned that nothing present in the current market system to prevent another dizzying drop such as friday 's there is .
`` too much complacency , there is '' money manager barry schrager say .
computers have increasingly connected securities markets world-wide , so that a buying or selling wave in one market is often passed around the globe .
investors everywhere so nervously eyed yesterday 's opening in tokyo , the nikkei average of 225 blue-chip stocks where got off to a rocky start .
the average plunged some 600 points , or 1.7 % , in the first 20 minutes of trading .
but the selling wave had no conviction , and the market first surged upward by 200 points , then drifted lower , closing down 647 .
in merrill lynch & co. 's tokyo trading room , some 40 traders and assistants sat quietly , with few orders to process .
one merrill trader say `` all clients is staying '' out of the market , .
the relative calm in tokyo proved little comfort to markets opening up in europe .
frankfurt 's opening was delayed a half hour because of a crush of sell orders .
`` the beginning was chaotic , '' nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank say
in london , also the view from the trading floor of an american securities firm , jefferies & co. , was troubling .
a computer screen displaying 100 blue-chip stocks colors each one red its price when is falling .
the screen was a sea of red .
`` i see concern , but i do n't see panic , '' j. francis palamara , a new yorker who run the 15-trader office say .
london 's blue-chip stock index turned up sending an encouraging message to wall street just before 8 a.m . new york time , .
trading when opened in new york at 9:30 a.m. edt , stocks fell sharply -- as expected .
futures markets in chicago had opened at a level suggesting the dow would fall by about 60 points .
with sell orders piled up from friday , about half the stocks in the dow could n't open on time .
by 9:45 , the industrial average had dropped 27 points .
by 10 a.m. , it was down 49 .
the dow ten minutes later , hit down 63.52 points , another 2.5 % bottom - .
but shortly before then , some of wall street 's sharpest traders say they sensed a turn , .
`` the first thing that caught my eye that was encouraging was treasury bonds was off , '' austin george , head of stock trading at t. rowe price say .
`` it meant that people was n't running pell-mell to the safety of bonds '' .
shortly after 10 a.m. , the major market index , a chicago board of trade futures contract of 20 stocks designed to mimic the djia , exploded upward .
stock traders was buoyed -- because an upturn in the mmi had also started the recovery in stocks on the tuesday following black monday .
`` the mmi have gone better , '' a trader in the london office of shearson lehman hutton shouted .
shearson 's london trading room went wild .
traders shouted out their reuters , quotron and telerate screens as posted an ever-narrowing loss on wall street .
wall street then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded to a gain on the day .
`` rally , rally , rally , '' shearson 's andy rosen shouted .
`` this is panic buying . ''
major blue-chip stocks like philip morris , general motors and proctor & gamble led the rally .
japanese was said to be heavy buyers .
german and dutch investors reportedly loaded up on kellogg co .
traders say , corporations with share buy-back programs then , kicked triggering gains in , among other issues , alcan aluminium and mcdonald 's into high gear , .
walt disney co. , which had one of the biggest sell-order imbalances on friday and was one of seven stocks that halted trading and never reopened that day , opened late down 8.5 yesterday at 114.5 , .
traders said but it then suddenly burst upward 7.5 as goldman , sachs & co. stepped in and bought almost every share offer , .
by 10:25 , the dow had turned up prompting cheers on trading desks and exchange floors for the day , .
among big board specialists , the cry was `` pull your offers '' meaning that specialists soon expected to get higher prices for their shares -- .
`` it was bedlam on the upside , '' one big board specialist said .
this technical strength spurred buying from wall street 's `` black boxes , '' computer programs designed to trigger large stock purchases during bullish periods .
typical , batterymarch 's dean lebaron perhaps , was .
mr. lebaron , who manages $ 10 billion , say `` we turned on , the trading system and it did it was programmed whatever to do '' . ,
asked what stocks the computer bought , the money manager say `` i do n't know '' , .
not everybody was making money .
the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , was heavy after the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options was halted friday .
many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract had bullish positions friday , and the shutdown when came they was frozen with huge losses .
over the weekend , clearing firms told the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning .
`` they was absolutely killed , slaughtered , '' one chicago-based options trader said .
a test of the stock market 's rally meanwhile , came at about 2 p.m. , with the dow at 2600 , up 31 points on the day .
charles clough , a strategist at merrill lynch , say bargain hunting had explained the dow 's strength up to that point and that many market professionals was anticipating a drop in the dow .
the announcement that real estate magnate and sometime raider donald trump was withdrawing his offer for amr corp. moreover , might have been expected to rattle traders .
the rally instead , only paused for about 25 minutes and then steamed forward as institutions resumed buying .
the market closed minutes after reaching its high for the day of
across the country , many people took yesterday 's events in stride , while remaining generally uneasy about the stock market in general .
james norman , the mayor of ava , mo. say : `` i do n't invest in stocks .
i much prefer money i can put my hands on '' .
while mayor norman found monday the market 's performance reassuring , he say , he remain uneasy .
`` we have half the experts saying one thing and half the other about the course of the economy '' .
ralph holzfaster , a farmer and farm-supply store operator in ogallala , neb. , say `` if anything good come out of this , it might be that it put some of these lbos on the skids '' . of the last few days events ,
gordon fines , a money manager at ids financial services in minneapolis , say `` you 're on a roller coaster , and that may last .
the public is still cautious .
skipper 's inc. , bellevue , wash. , said it signed a definitive merger agreement for a national pizza corp. unit to acquire the 90.6 % of skipper 's inc. it do n't own for $ 11.50 a share , or about $ 28.1 million .
np acquisition co. , a national pizza unit , plan to begin a tender offer for skipper 's on friday , conditioned on at least two-thirds of skipper 's shares being tendered .
pittsburg , kan.-based national pizza said the transaction will be financed under its revolving credit agreement .
in national over-the-counter trading , skipper 's shares rose 50 cents to $ 11 .
skipper 's said the merger will help finance remodeling and future growth .
skipper 's previously turned down a $ 10-a-share proposal from national pizza and pizza hut inc. questioned whether the purchase would violate national pizza 's franchise agreements .
national pizza said it settled its dispute with pizza hut , allowing it to make the purchase .
national pizza said skipper 's results also , began to turn around , permitting a higher offer , .
for the 12 weeks ended sept. 3 , skipper 's had net income of $ 361,000 , or 13 cents a share , compared with a net loss a year earlier .
revenue was $ 19.9 million .
east germans rallied as officials reportedly sought honecker 's ouster .
in what was considered the largest protest in the communist state 's 40-year history , at least 120,000 demonstrators marched to press demands for democratic freedoms , through the southern city of leipzig opposition activists said .
police did n't intervene .
as the first of more than 1,300 east germans trying to flee to the west through poland renounced their citizenship , a west german newspaper meanwhile , reported that regional communist officials demanded the dismissal of hard-line leader honecker .
in a foreign policy speech , secretary of state baker , called saying it was the `` legitimate right '' of the german people for the reunification of germany , .
gorbachev blamed the soviet union 's press for contributing to the nation 's mounting problems .
at a meeting friday , the kremlin leader about recent articles that raised the possiblity of civil unrest , complained and accused the media of fueling panic buying of goods by publishing stories about impending shortages .
house-senate conferees approved a permanent smoking ban on domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on flights of less than six hours to alaska and hawaii .
the curbs would cover all but a small percentage of flights , and represent an expansion of the current ban on flights of less than two hours .
e. robert wallach was sentenced by a u.s. judge in new york to six years in prison and fined $ 250,000 for his racketeering conviction in the wedtech scandal .
wallach , an associate of ex-attorney general meese , was found guilty in august of taking $ 425,000 in illegal payoffs from the now-defunct defense contractor .
nasa resumed the countdown for today 's launch of the space shuttle atlantis , and a federal appeals court in washington dismissed a lawsuit by anti-nuclear groups to delay the flight because the plutonium-powered galileo space probe was aboard .
the space agency said it did n't expect weather or protesters to block the liftoff .
government sources said the bush administration is preparing to extend a ban on federal financing of research using fetal tissue , .
a temporary prohibition was imposed in march 1988 .
while anti-abortion groups is opposed to such research , scientists have said transplanting such tissue could be effective in treating diabetes .
delegates from 91 nations endorsed a ban on world ivory trade in an attempt to rescue the endangered elephant from extinction .
five african nations , however , said they would continue selling the valuable tusks .
mubarak held reconciliation talks with gadhafi at the egyptian resort of mersa metruh .
it was the libyan leader 's first trip to egypt in 16 years .
they announced a reduction in formalities for travel , but did n't show any real signs of resuming full diplomatic ties .
the egyptian president said he would visit libya today to resume the talks .
seoul and pyongyang reached a tentative agreement to allow visits between families on the divided korean peninsula .
differences remained however , between the north and south korean governments , over conditions for the exchanges .
freed black nationalists resumed political activity in south africa and vowed to fight against apartheid , raising fears of a possible white backlash .
the nation 's main white opposition party warned that the government 's release sunday of eight black political prisoners risked bringing chaos and eventual black marxist rule to the nation .
the white house said `` bush is fully satisfied '' with cia director webster and the intelligence agency 's performance during the oct. 3 failed coup in panama .
the washington post reported that unidentified senior administration officials was frustrated with webster 's low-profile activities during the insurrection and wanted him replaced .
poland 's legislature approved limits on automatic wage increases without special provisions for food price rises .
the vote was considered a test of the solidarity-led government 's resolve to proceed with a harsh economic-restructuring program .
norway 's king olav v installed a three-party non-socialist government as gro harlem brundtland 's three-year-old labor regime relinquished power .
the 19-member cabinet by prime minister jan syse , who acknowledged a `` difficult situation '' since the coalition control only 62 seats in oslo 's 165-member legislature is led .
el salvador 's government opened a new round of talks with the country 's leftist rebels in an effort to end a decade-long civil war .
a spokesman said the guerrillas would present a cease-fire proposal during the negotiations in costa rica that include constitutional and economic changes .
the state department said a `` possibility '' that some nicaraguan rebels was selling their u.s.-supplied arms to salvadoran guerrillas , there was but insisted it was n't an organized effort .
secretary of state baker about a u.n. aide who last week told the contras to disband as part of a regional peace accord separately , complained .
the department of trade and industry said british retail sales volume rose a provisional 0.4 % in september from august and was up 2.2 % from september 1988 , .
for the three months ended in september , retail sales volume was down 0.5 % from the previous three months and up 1.2 % from a year earlier .
chicago investor william farley agreed to sell three divisions of cluett peabody & co. for about $ 600 million to bidermann s.a. , a closely held clothing maker based in paris .
after shortly completing the $ 1.56 billion acquisition of west point-pepperell inc. in april , mr. farley 's holding company , farley inc. , said it was considering the sale of cluett , a leading shirt maker and one of west point-pepperell 's biggest units .
cluett units that make men 's shirts under the arrow name , socks under the gold toe name and menswear through the schoeneman division included is in the sale .
the companies said the agreement is subject to bidermann 's receipt of financing and to regulatory and other approvals .
they said the sale is expected to be concluded by the end of november .
mr. farley said the sale of three of cluett 's four main divisions plus other `` anticipated '' west point-pepperell asset sales by december , should bring in a total of about $ 700 million .
he did n't elaborate on other asset sales being considered .
mr. farley followed a similar pattern he when acquired northwest industries inc. and then sold much of its assets .
but he kept fruit of the loom inc. , the underwear maker he still control that and serve as chairman and chief executive .
cluett was an independent company until west point-pepperell acquired it for $ 375 million in cash and stock in 1986 .
in the fiscal year ended sept. 30 , 1988 , cluett had operating profit of $ 37 million on sales of $ 757 million .
bidermann sell clothes under various labels , including yves saint laurent and bill robinson for men and ralph lauren for women .
a spokesman said the company had sales of $ 400 million in 1988 .
in new york stock exchange composite trading , west point-pepperell fell 25 cents to $ 53.875 .
britain 's blue arrow plc intend to change its name to manpower plc and write off a chunk of the nearly $ 1.2 billion in good will realized in the takeover of u.s.-based manpower inc .
blue arrow chairman mitchell fromstein said that the two steps may be a prelude to reincorporating the world 's biggest employment-services group in the u.s. in an interview .
mr. fromstein disclosed the planned steps , expected within a few months , as blue arrow posted a 2.5 % drop in its third-quarter pretax earnings .
the name change and good will write-off could help solidify blue arrow 's dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market and give a more american image it as u.s. investors turn jittery about foreign stocks after friday 's market plunge .
u.s. holders now own more than 60 % of blue arrow compared with 9 % last january .
`` in the u.s. market , the recognition of the manpower name is infinitely stronger than blue arrow , '' mr. fromstein said .
the moves also could erase shareholders ' perception of blue arrow as a company in turmoil .
`` it further reinforce the concept that blue arrow is a thing of the past , '' doug arthur , an analyst at kidder peabody & co. in new york said .
the proposed changes `` all '' make a lot of sense to me , he added .
in a widely publicized boardroom coup , mr. fromstein ousted antony berry as blue arrow chief executive in january , a month after mr. berry had forced out mr. fromstein as the $ 1 million-a-year chief of milwaukee-based manpower .
mr. fromstein solidified his control in april by taking over from mr. berry as chairman .
but the blue arrow tumult is n't over yet , as the british government is investigating a disputed # 25 million ( $ 39.4 million ) loan which mr. fromstein have said was made under mr. berry 's direction .
blue arrow was able to pull off the $ 1.34 billion takeover of manpower in 1987 because different british and american accounting standards largely produce higher reported earnings for british companies .
under british rules , blue arrow was able to write off the $ 1.15 billion in good will arising from the purchase at once .
blue arrow would have as a u.s.-based company , to amortize the good will over as many as 40 years , creating a continuing drag on reported earnings .
good will is the excess of cost of an acquired firm , operating unit or assets over the current or fair market value of those assets .
but with so many shares now held in the u.s. , blue arrow report two ways , its earnings based on both u.k. and u.s. accounting standards .
`` our balance sheets look like they came from alice 's wonderland , '' mr. fromstein said .
the british version show `` a handful of pounds of net worth '' following the 1987 write-off of good will , while the american version reflect `` $ 1 billion of net worth '' because almost none of -lcb- the good will -rcb- have been written off .
mr. fromstein said he hope to eradicate some of the good will left on blue arrow 's u.s. books in one fell swoop , but would n't specify how much .
people close to blue arrow suggested the write-down would represent a sizable chunk , with executives claiming prior management overstated the extent of manpower 's good will .
along with the return to the manpower name , that move , could bolster the company 's prospects during possibly difficult times for temporary help .
kidder peabody 's mr. arthur said the number of u.s. temporary workers fell about 1 % in the 12 months ending aug. 31 , after sliding nearly 3.5 % in july , .
blue arrow blamed partly the pretax profit drop in the quarter ended july 31 on slower earnings growth of non-manpower units in britain .
pretax profit overall , slid to # 18.49 million in the quarter from # 18.98 million a year earlier .
richard g. sim , the man credited with transforming applied power inc. from an underachiever into a feisty player in the global market for hydraulic tools , hope to guide a similar turnaround at the company 's latest acquisition , barry wright corp .
the 45-year-old former general electric co. executive figure it will be easier this time .
but while applauding the acquisition , analysts , say applied 's chief executive face a tough challenge in integrating the two companies .
barry wright , acquired by applied for $ 147 million , make computer-room equipment and vibration-control systems .
the watertown , mass. , company 's sales have been dormant and its profits have dropped .
last year 's earnings of $ 1.3 million , including $ 815,000 from a restructuring gain , was far below the year-earlier $ 8.4 million .
besides spurring barry wright 's sales , which were $ 201.7 million in 1988 , mr. sim must pare its costs and product line .
f. john mirek , an analyst at blunt ellis loewi in milwaukee say `` the question is it how long be going to take barry wright to make a contribution , '' .
the answer will help determine whether applied continues to reach the ambitious goals set by mr. sim .
the butler , wis. , manufacturer went public at $ 15.75 a share in august 1987 , and then mr. sim 's goal was a $ 29 per-share price by 1992 .
strong earnings growth helped achieve far ahead of schedule , that price in august 1988 .
the stock have since softened trading around $ 25 a share last week and closing yesterday at $ 23.00 in national over-the-counter trading , .
but mr. sim have set a fresh target of $ 50 a share by the end of
robert t. foote , applied 's chief financial officer , say reaching that goal , will require `` efficient reinvestment '' of cash by applied and continuation of its healthy 19 % rate of return on operating capital .
in barry wright , mr. sim see a situation `` very similar '' to the one he faced he when joined applied as president and chief operating officer in 1985 .
applied , then a closely held company , was stagnating under the management of its controlling family .
while profitable , `` it was n't growing and was n't providing a satisfactory return on invested capital , '' he say .
mr. sim is confident that the drive to dominate certain niche markets will work at barry wright as it has at applied .
he also profess an `` evangelical '' fervor to develop a corporate culture that reward managers who produce and decision-making where is shared .
mr. sim consider the new unit 's operations `` fundamentally sound '' and add that barry wright has been fairly successful in into markets that have n't interested larger competitors moving .
mr. sim say `` with a little patience , these businesses will perform very satisfactorily , '' .
within about six months , `` things will be moving in the right direction , '' he predict .
mr. sim figure it will be easier to turn around barry wright since he be now in the driver 's seat .
he when came to applied , `` i did n't have the power to execute as i do today , '' he say .
he was named chief executive officer of applied in 1986 and became chairman last november .
at applied , mr. sim set growth as his first objective .
he in an offering that netted about $ 12.6 million , applied which helped launch the company 's acquisition program took the company public .
sales climbed to an estimated $ 245 million in fiscal 1989 , ended aug. 31 , from $ 99.9 million in fiscal 1985 .
the company expect that earnings , which have marched steadily upward in recent years , reached up from $ 15.2 million in fiscal 1988 and $ 3.9 million in 1985 about $ 20.8 million , or $ 1.58 a share , in the fiscal year just ended , .
