legislation that capital , how can raise the new savings-and-loan bailout agency another potential obstacle to the government 's sale of sick thrifts creating would restrict introduced influential members of the house ways and means committee .
the resolution trust corp. would prevent the bill , chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill. ) , include whose backers from temporary working capital raising by an rtc-owned bank or thrift issue debt that would n't be counted on the federal budget having .
the rtc to restrict to treasury borrowings only , intend the bill unless specific congressional authorization receive the agency .
`` is such agency ` self-help ' borrowing unauthorized and expensive , far more expensive than direct treasury borrowing , '' said rep. fortney stark ( d. , calif. ) , the bill 's chief sponsor .
$ 30 billion raising from debt issued by the newly created rtc include the complex financing plan in the s&l bailout law .
was created this financing system in the new law in order the bailout spending to keep from the budget deficit swelling .
would be raised another $ 20 billion through treasury bonds , which lower interest rates pay .
but `` working '' capital the bad assets of thrifts that is sold , to maintain until can be sold separately the assets also require the rtc .
the total spending for the bailout leaving at $ 50 billion , or $ 166 billion including interest over 10 years would be paid off that debt as is sold the assets , .
said `` be it a problem that to be resolved , clearly have '' david cooke , executive director of the rtc .
roughly $ 19 billion 34 insolvent s&ls , selling have already spent the agency and is it likely 600 to sell or merge by the time conclude the bailout .
absent other working capital , said he , other thrift resolutions to delay until could be raised cash by the bad assets selling would be forced the rtc .
`` to wait until have collected we on those assets before can move forward , we would have we '' said he .
the fight have muddied the complicated language in the huge new law .
the rtc up to $ 5 billion to borrow from the treasury at any time do allow the law .
$ 50 billion , may not exceed the rtc 's total obligations moreover , say it but is derived that figure after notes and other debt , including and the market value of the assets hold the rtc subtracting from it .
but more public debt , did n't anticipate congress or intend say opponents of the rtc 's working-capital plan , and the rtc oversight board has been remiss in informed congress not keeping said rep. charles schumer ( d. , n.y . ) .
`` lead that secrecy to a proposal like the one from ways and means , which sort of draconian , seems to me '' said he .
`` a price of prior consultation on the hill to pay to have is going the rtc if that kind of flexibility want they '' .
a hearing on the bill will hold the ways and means committee next tuesday .
we 're about to see if work advertising .
new ads a familiar message : investing , keep on be the market just fine trumpeting hard on the heels of friday 's 190-point stock-market plunge and the uncertainty that be followed , is rolling out a few big brokerage firms .
clients to keep from the market , fleeing as did individual investors in droves after the crash in october is their mission
just days after the 1987 crash , ads rushed out major brokerage firms investors to calm .
this time around , be moving even faster they .
a new television commercial filmed painewebber inc. at 4 p.m. edt yesterday and it had on the air by last night .
new ads placed fidelity investments in newspapers yesterday , and another new ad appearing today wrote .
by yesterday afternoon new tv ads had already written shearson lehman hutton inc. .
them running during tomorrow night 's world series broadcast considered it but not to decided when recovered the market yesterday .
potential new ad strategies was plotting out other brokerage firms , including merrill lynch & co. , .
a lesson learned the brokerage firms the last time around , the phone lines when flooded frightened investors and the market fled in a panic .
this time , was the firms ready .
for example , ads prepared several months ago fidelity , in case of a market plunge .
when went the market into its free fall friday afternoon , full pages in the monday editions of half a dozen newspapers ordered the investment firm .
fidelity 's automated 800-number touted the ads beneath the huge headline , `` fidelity is ready for your call '' .
about double the usual volume of calls received the 800-line , which already was operating but which about , did n't know many clients over the weekend say a fidelity spokesman .
`` come a lot of investor confidence from the fact that can speak they to us , '' say he .
to think ahead of time about it had we '' .
a step further , go today 's fidelity ad to stay investors in the market or even to plunge in with fidelity encouraging .
underneath the headline `` diversification , '' `` based on the events of the past week , them protect against the market 's volatility to help is balanced their portfolios to know need all investors '' counsel it , .
a few diversified fidelity funds to plug by name go on it .
also was painewebber able to gear up quickly thanks to the 1987 crash .
in the aftermath of the 1987 debacle , commercials taping in-house , its timing ultimately getting down fast enough a commercial to tape after closed the market and it rush on the air that night began the brokerage firm .
an arrangement with cable news network under which its last-minute creations to air would agree cnn also negotiated it .
mary farrell , one of the firm 's most visible investment strategists , particularly bullish sounding feature the new painewebber commercial , created with ad agency saatchi & saatchi co. , .
taped as just closed the market yesterday , ms. farrell advising , `` the market view here we as going through a relatively normal cycle offer it ... .
that is the stock market still the place to be for long-term appreciation to feel continue we '' .
to appear three times on cnn last night was scheduled the spot .
an even harder sell , specific stocks recommending considered painewebber .
instead , settled it on the clients who are its lifeline that money to keep in the market just urging .
`` which the prices just drive down further , go down the market and everything , dump to see is the worst thing that can do anyone be saying we '' say john lampe , painewebber 's director of advertising .
`` if it owned you and it liked friday , have n't changed the true value '' .
`` is this n't 1987 revisited '' add he , .
with fluctuating the market and then closing up more than 88 points yesterday , their approach to constantly revise had investment firms .
at shearson lehman , potential new commercials created executives friday night and throughout the weekend , to regroup yesterday afternoon then had .
one of shearson 's easy-to-film , black-and-white `` where stand we '' commercials , which have been running occasionally in response to news events since 1985 to make had been the plan .
would have run the ad during the world series tomorrow , the debut commercial of shearson 's new ad campaign , `` leadership by example '' replacing .
but in a meeting after closed the market yesterday , not to go ahead with the stock-market ad decided shearson executives .
`` to be said need anything do n't think we at this point .
'' to be straightening out seem the market ; a wait-and-see attitude , be taking we say cathleen b. stewart , executive vice president of marketing .
in any case , new ads to create is clearly moving faster the brokerage firms than did they in the fall of 1987 .
but to be seen whether their ads will be any more effective remain it .
in 1987 , despite a barrage of ads from most of the major investment firms , ran en masse individuals from the market .
their hardest now must try the firms that can work advertising this time around to prove .
an agreement in principle a majority stake in arnold advertising , a small boston shop to acquire reached edward eskandarian , former chairman of della femina , mcnamee wcrs/boston , .
was n't disclosed terms .
chairman and chief executive of arnold become mr. eskandarian , who his della femina post resigned in september , .
the title of president will retain john verret , the agency 's president and chief executive , .
arnold its estimated $ 4 million cooperative ad account for the hartford , conn. , area to handle separately , named mcdonald 's corp. , oak brook , ill. , .
had been handled that account by della femina , mcnamee wcrs .
their clout to use the nation 's education crisis solve to help call a 142-page ad supplement to business week 's special `` corporate '' elite issue on business leaders .
ads from 52 corporate advertisers include the supplement , the largest ever for the magazine , and kicks off a two-year business week initiative on education .
10 % of the gross revenues from the supplement will distribute the magazine as grants to innovative teachers .
be it what 1 ) explain why is we like , well , ourselves rather than bo jackson ; 2 ) that be it possible to drown in a lake that two feet deep average cautions ; and 3 ) that 1,118 publishable rock 'n' roll tunes would produce 10,000 monkeys placed before 10,000 pianos predicts .
is baseball , that game of the long haul , the quintessential sport of the mean , and caught up the mean ol' law with the san francisco giants in the world series last weekend .
was held the team that runs dumped by the bushel on the chicago cubs in the national league playoffs to just one in two games by the home-team oakland a 's , the gang that had been done similarly unto by the los angeles dodgers and orel hershiser in last year 's tournament .
morever , was accomplished much of the damage by a 's who some catching up to do had .
in game two , on a cool sunday evening in this land of perpetual autumn , was done a lot of the catching up by the a 's catcher , terry steinbach .
a 2-0 pitch from rick reuschel hit he into the left-field stands in inning four his team 's lead to stretch from 2-1 to a decisive 5-1 , where stayed it .
so what if just seven home runs had struck steinbach in 130 regular-season games , and batted in the seventh position of the a 's lineup .
`` if your pitch , get you and a good swing , take can happen anything , '' later remarked he .
three hits two more than 'd had he in the five-game dodger series in which 'd gone 1-for-17 he had mark mcgwire , the big , red-haired oakland first baseman , in four at bats , .
seven of their team 's 11 hits got the a-men nos. 6 through 9 , a.k.a. the `` bottom of the order , '' batting and four of its runs scored in a 5-0 decision .
the giants held right-hander dave stewart to five hits to account for the zero on the other side of the saturday ledger .
some evening up coming , may have he indicates that was he the a 's winningest pitcher during its american league campaign with a 21-9 mark , plus two wins over toronto in the playoffs , but with the way is behaving his split-fingered fastball , might not be that this week .
goes the same for mike moore , another veteran who early struggles overcame but a run and four hits to permit the giants in seven innings in sunday 's contest .
`` a better split-finger than the guy before , had every guy put out there they '' marveled giant manager roger craig .
be he an ex-hurler who 's one of the leading gurus of the fashionable delivery , which look like a fastball until dive it beneath the lunging bat .
that go up two games to none in the best-of-seven fest the a 's into san francisco 's candlestick park tonight is the upshot of the downshoot .
that it all to win went on about three of four clubs ( 29 of 39 ) that 2-0 series leads took say the stat to reckon here with .
be that not an average giant rooters to soothe .
that the home fans in this series of the subway bart ( be that a better name for a public conveyance than `` desire , '' do n't think you ? ) called would have been ecstatic over the proceedings , might think one but them observe they in relative calm .
sat side by side partisans of the two combatants in the 49,000-plus seats of oakland coliseum , and while their favorites cheered they and the opposition , booed advanced no further , at least as far as could see i hostilities .
caps the colors and emblems of both teams bearing wearing even showed up a few folks .
`` i 'm for the giants today , but because only lost they yesterday .
'em both love i .
'' is the only thing be rooting i for for seven games , to go the series said david williams , a sacramento septuagenarian , at the coliseum before sunday 's go .
be it the latter , to believe choose i although probably spring it from the fact that is just about everyone out here , including the a 's and giants , originally from somewhere else .
it suffice that if was this a new york yankees-mets series , or one between the chicago cubs and white sox ( hey , be it possible ) , uniformed police 'd need you in every other seat opposing fans , to separate and their bonnets would bifurcate only the suicidal to say .
a lot of heroes to root for anyway , gave the a 's you .
in the opening game , besides steinbach and stewart , there was walt weiss , a twiggy-looking , second-year shortstop who a couple months of the season had lost to knee surgery .
was he flawless afield ( ditto in game two ) , a runner moved along in the a 's three-run second inning , and homered for his team 's final tally .
such is his reputation among the east bay bashers that his first career home run when hit he last season , the ball to turn over to him in return for an autograph agreed the fan who it caught .
was an a 's co-hero of the second game rickey henderson , who the hot side of the hot-cold equation exemplify .
toronto smoked he in the playoffs with six hits , seven walks and eight stolen bases in 22 at bats , and that continued by going 3-for-3 at the plate sunday , along with walking , a base stealing and a run scoring .
`` when 're you in the groove , every ball see tremendously , you '' lectured he .
was the cold guys in the set will clark , kevin mitchell and matt williams , the giants ' 3-4-5 hitters .
combined they for 25 hits , six home runs and 24 runs batted in in the five games against the cubs .
a collective 5-for-24 went here , they with zero homers and ribbies .
`` believe i in the law of averages , '' declared san francisco batting coach dusty baker after game two .
`` come up a so-so hitter who 's hot for the other side 'd rather see i than a good hitter who 's cold '' .
but no prediction about when would return good times to his side wisely offered the old dodger slugger .
`` when go it , it when 'll get back , you never know you '' said he .
`` be that baseball .
a 10 % drop in third-quarter net income , reported ncr corp. intense competition that its gross profit margins to dip caused citing .
roughly what had expected analysts fell net income for the quarter to $ 93.1 million from $ 103.1 million , .
but only 2 % dropped per-share profit to $ 1.23 a share from $ 1.26 a share , as its stock buy-back plan continued the company .
dropped average shares outstanding to 75.8 million from 82.1 million .
1 % fell revenue to $ 1.39 billion from $ 1.41 billion .
`` its fourth-quarter performance will adversely affect the negative effect of a stronger u.s. dollar '' and `` difficult 1988 results to better it make '' also said the computer maker , which more than half its goods sell outside the u.s. , .
a world-wide softening of the computer markets reflecting declined revenue both in the u.s. and overseas , said ncr .
`` good gains '' showed orders in the u.s. during the latest quarter however , said the company , .
those gains estimate analysts at 12 % to 13 % , coming a good part of it from large orders placed by a few of ncr 's major customers .
in addition to a general slowing of the computer industry , is also affected ncr , which automated teller machines and computerized cash registers , sell by the retail and financial sectors , `` areas of the economy that have generally not been robust , '' note sanjiv g. hingorani , an analyst for salomon brothers inc .
the current quarter 's results , should negatively affect these factors , combined with a strong dollar , said ncr .
in the year-earlier fourth quarter , profit of $ 149.6 million , or $ 1.85 a share , had ncr on revenue of $ 1.8 billion .
his full-year estimates for 1989 lowered he to $ 5.35 a share from $ 5.50 a share said mr. hingorani .
was slashed revenue projections to $ 6.03 billion from $ 6.20 billion .
last year , net income of $ 439.3 million , or $ 5.33 a share , had ncr on $ 5.99 billion in revenue .
for the nine months , 9 % fell the company 's earnings to $ 264.6 million , or $ 3.40 a share , from $ 289.7 million , or $ 3.49 a share .
1 % declined revenues to $ 4.17 billion from $ 4.19 billion .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , 75 cents fell ncr shares to close at $ 57 .
your sept. 19 article `` analysts ' pay link wall street firms to performance , '' concerning that is finally tuning in wall street to the hard , cold facts of the real working world be delighted i .
if is the firms serious , the practice however , why limit to the poor , maligned analysts is whose ability to see into the future fragile at best ?
the same harsh standards why not extend to the sales force , and a base salary with annual bonus based on how much money made they for their clients during the year pay brokers ?
a lot of account-churning , should stop that and a stock market driven only by professional concern , careful thought and good sense produce .
reported steve clark , a shearson lehman hutton inc. trader , for work at 5 a.m. , two and a half hours before the usual monday morning strategy meeting .
at jefferies & co. , the office did n't reach j. francis palamara until 5:30 a.m. , but then he had been up most of the night at home .
`` calls had all night long i from the states , '' said he .
`` every hour -- 1:30 , 2:30 , 3:30 , 4:30 was woken up i .
is looking people for possible opportunities to buy , but their chin to stick out want nobody '' .
for many of london 's securities traders , was it a day that started nervously in the small hours .
by lunchtime , was the selling at near-panic fever .
but as ended the day in a frantic wall street-inspired rally , a sigh of relief breathed the city .
so went it yesterday in the trading rooms of london 's financial district .
in the wake of wall street 's plunge last friday , especially vulnerable was considered the london market .
and before the opening of trading here yesterday , was all eyes on early trading in tokyo for a clue as how widespread to might be the fallout .
by the time officially got trading under way at 9 a.m. , was in the news from asia .
and mixed signals left it for london .
closed off a significant but less-than-alarming 1.8 % on thin volume tokyo stocks ; 6.5 % declined hong kong stocks in orderly trading .
at jefferies ' trading room on finsbury circus , a stately circle at the edge of the financial district , the london market 's major barometer -- the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index displayed desktop computer screens .
falling stocks indicated red figures on the screens ; blue figures , rising stocks .
the blues , right away , outnumbered 80 to 20 , the reds as opened off 157.1 points , or 7 % the index at 2076.8 , .
`` concern , see i but any panic , do n't see i '' said mr. palamara , a big , good-humored new york native who the 15-trader office run .
it played conservatively , the jefferies office , a branch of the los angeles-based firm , risk to avoid seeking .
`` is this not the sort of market a big position to have in , '' said david smith , who trading in all non-u.s. stocks head .
`` a very tight book to run tend we '' .
most of its energies buyers and sellers , to match trying spent jefferies in the morning and there was n't many buyers .
`` is getting pretty well pasted all the takeover stocks -- scottish & newcastle , b.a.t , drg -- this morning , '' said mr. smith .
seconds later , came in a 7,500-share `` sell '' order for scottish & newcastle .
for the third time in 15 minutes , the no-smoking area left a trader next to mr. smith a cigarette to have .
on the screens , remained only two forlorn blue figures , but a few points had recovered the index and was off about 140 .
`` because did n't collapse tokyo , a little stock , pick up 's let '' said mr. smith .
7,500 shares of reuters targeted he and a button punched other dealers ' price quotes to call up on his screen .
the best price showed the vivid yellow figures at 845 pence , ( $ 13.27 ) and feelers putting out started mr. smith 's traders .
but a serious buyer on a day dominated by selling , sensed the market and immediately jumped the quotes to 850 pence .
`` to buy , when want i run they from you -- their prices , changing keep they '' said mr. smith .
`` be it very frustrating . ''
his search for the reuters shares temporarily abandoned he .
by this time , was it 4:30 a.m. in new york , and a call from a new york customer an opinion on the british stock market , which troubles of its own had been having even before friday 's new york market break wanting fielded mr. smith .
`` fundamentally dangerous ... , '' said mr. smith , almost in a whisper , `` ... . fundamentally weak ... fairly vulnerable still ... extremely dangerously poised ...
be we in for a lot of turbulence ... . ''
was he right .
by midday , was the london market in full retreat .
`` be falling it like a stone , '' said danny linger , a pit trader who was standing outside the london international financial futures exchange .
gathered only half the usual lunchtime crowd at the tony corney & barrow wine bar on old broad street nearby .
was conversation subdued as the latest market statistics watched most patrons on television .
at 12:49 p.m. , its low , 2029.7 , off 204.2 points hit the index .
`` the limit opened down , france off at least 10 % if the index , could calculate you which you could n't , '' said early in the afternoon mr. clark , the shearson trader , .
`` is down 10 % and suspended , spain be down 8 % , sweden norway 11 % .
have been very badly damaged this market '' .
as neared 2:30 p.m. -- wall street 's opening time -- , bets on how low would open the new york market traded shearson traders and salesmen .
in the center of the trading floor , scrambled as soon as opened the new york market -- more than 60 points plummeting in the first few minutes chief trader roger streeter and two colleagues for the telephones .
an opportunity created by the sell-off saw they .
as american depositary receipts in jaguar plc , dumped wall street traders them bought mr. streeter and trader sam ruiz to resell in the u.k .
ford motor co. or general motors corp. to bid for jaguar still expect investors here .
after about 45 minutes , suddenly , rallied the u.s. markets .
`` better , have gone the mmi '' shouted one trader at about 3:15 london time , as a turnabout suddenly indicated the u.s. major markets index contract .
as strengthened wall street , wild went the london trading room .
shouted traders as an ever-narrowing loss on wall street posted their screens .
then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded wall street to a gain on the day .
`` rally ! rally ! rally ! '' shouted shearson trader andy rosen , more jaguar shares selling .
`` is this panic buying ! ''
as rallied the london market , whether the weekend of worrying and jitters had been worth it wondered some .
closed off 70.5 , or about 3.3 % the london index at 2163.4 , its high for the day , .
is ambassador paul nitze 's statement ( notable & quotable , sept. 20 ) , `` if a million people working for you , have you will go wrong at least once a year , every bad thing that one chance in a million of going wrong have '' a pretty negative way of looking at things .
is n't it just as fair that if a million people working for you , have you will go right at least once a year every good thing that one chance in a million of going right have to say ?
a bill that authority leveraged buy-outs of major u.s. airlines to review and approve would give the transportation secretary approved the house aviation subcommittee .
quick action on the legislation , introduced wednesday and approved by the subcommittee on a voice vote yesterday spurred the collapsed plan ual corp. , parent of united airlines , to acquire .
to be taken up by the public works and transportation committee tomorrow , is expected the bill and will be urged a floor vote by next week .
criticism from the bush administration and a parting shot from financier donald trump , who yesterday his takeover bid for amr corp. , the parent of american airlines withdrew drew the measure .
in a letter to subcommittee chairman james oberstar ( d. , minn. ) , the bill criticized mr. trump as an explicit effort his bid for amr , to thwart and contributed it to the collapse of the deal said .
a letter the administration 's opposition to the bill `` in its present form '' to express also sent elaine chao , deputy transportation secretary , .
mr. trump 's allegations brushed off rep. oberstar as an `` excuse for failing his own deal '' .
there is `` wiggle room '' in the administration 's position indicated the fact that had n't come the other letter from transportation secretary samuel skinner also said he .
that was the legislation n't a response to any particular market situation repeatedly stressed mr. oberstar and other committee members .
but the ual and amr examples cited they as reasons this legislation to enact to move quickly .
is the withdrawal of the trump bid for amr n't likely efforts the legislation to push to deflate said aides both in the house and senate .
`` be it still on the fast track and it , to do still want we '' said one senate aide .
is aimed the bill at the concern that costly safety measures might sacrifice an airline the debt incurred in a leveraged buy-out to pay off addressing .
clearly established authority to block mergers , currently , do n't have the transportation secretary but the drastic step of the operating certificate of any carrier unfit consider the official revoking can take .
the bill view supporters of the legislation as an effort stability and certainty to add to the airline-acquisition process , and the safety and fitness of the industry to preserve .
in general , a 30-day review period would give the bill the transportation department before could be acquired 15 % or more of the voting stock of a major u.s. air carrier .
the transportation secretary to notify the acquiring party and all information relevant the intent of the acquisition to determining to provide also would require it .
the secretary a buy-out to reject if have n't been provided sufficient information , or if is the buy-out likely the carrier to weaken financially , result in a substantial reduction in size of the airline through disposal of assets , or control give to a foreign interest would allow the bill .
if is needed more information , authority the review period to extend 20 days would have the secretary .
support for the bill expressed all the witnesses , both congressmen and industry experts , in order profiteers to prevent from cashing in on airline profits at the expense of safe , cost-effective service .
but disapproved several committee members , mr. trump 's claim that the failure of the ual deal and the stock-market plunge caused the threat of regulation backing some .
that would be prohibited large airlines from themselves divesting of smaller entities and independent spin-off companies producing was one of the major concerns expressed by the dissenters .
in a possible prelude to the resumption of talks between boeing co. and striking machinists union members , will meet representatives of the two sides with him tomorrow said a federal mediator .
`` it could be a long meeting or it could be a short one , '' said doug hammond , the mediator , who the agreement to meet a first step toward a resumption of negotiations called .
`` that is scheduled again talks be encouraged we but beyond that , no expression of expectations , have made we '' said a boeing spokesman .
a three-year contract offer that a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus some bonuses would have provided have rejected the machinists union .
currently , is average pay for machinists $ 13.39 an hour , said boeing .
now in its 13th day , about 55,000 machinists have idled the strike and delivery of some jetliners to delay has started .
with a strike fund of about $ 100 million , was prepared it for a long strike had said the union .
after the third week on strike , $ 100 a week receiving from the fund will begin union members .
continue work at boeing with the lines manning supervisors and other non-striking personnel .
and at the company 's wichita , kan. , plant , still are working about 2,400 of the 11,700 machinists , said boeing .
under kansas right-to-work laws , workers to be union members can not require contracts .
is working how many employees at its giant renton , wash. , plant to say have declined boeing .
could n't be reached union officials for comment .
a tender offer for the computer printer maker 's common stock to launch intend it said dpc acquisition partners , a hostile suitor for dataproducts corp. , .
preliminary materials to file with the securities and exchange commission a shareholder solicitation dataproducts ' board to oust regarding plan it also said dpc , a group led by the new york investment firm crescott inc. , .
a 7.8 % stake in dataproducts hold dpc and a $ 15-a-share bid for the company made in may , but the $ 283.7 million proposal unacceptable considered dataproducts management .
to elaborate on the group 's new plan declined a dpc spokesman .
in american stock exchange composite trading yesterday , 62.5 cents jumped dataproducts shares to close at $ 9.375 .
a restructuring plan announced dataproducts , which a buyer had been seeking for several months , in september and itself took off the auction block .
plans to split into three sectors , to phase out domestic printer manufacturing operations and its new england subsidiary to sell include the company 's restructuring .
as part of the plan , a pact $ 63 million of its real estate holdings to sell to trizec properties inc. , a unit of canada 's trizec corp announced dataproducts .
`` is the company at a loss dpc 's intentions to understand '' said jack davis , dataproducts ' president , chairman and chief executive officer , .
today 's announcement `` opportunistic and disruptive '' called he and to proceed with its restructuring intend the company said .
plummeted share prices across europe yesterday in response to friday 's new york sell-off , but a late comeback staged some issues after opened wall street without another rout .
further reason for optimism have european investors today , after the u.s. rebound .
was the frankfurt stock exchange , which closed before opened the new york exchanges , the hardest hit of the major european markets , with 12.8 % dropping the dax index .
in london , plummeted prices in early trading and were off as much as 9 % before strong to close down only 3.2 % coming back after the new york opening .
`` in my view , will stabilize relatively quickly the stock market said west german economics minister helmut haussmann , .
there may be one or other psychological or technical reactions , but is n't based they on fundamentals .
is the economy of west germany and the ec -lcb- european community -rcb- highly stable . ''
also was hard hit paris , which has been the center of speculation fever in recent weeks , .
fell share prices in milan , amsterdam , zurich , madrid and stockholm .
also tumbled prices in brussels , trading , where disrupted a computer breakdown .
12.8 % , a one-day record , the summer 's gains wiping out plunged the dax index of 30 west german blue chips .
closed down 203.56 points the index at 1385.72 , .
by comparison , on black monday , 9.4 % , two years ago would have dropped the new index according to a projection by the exchange .
may have reacted so strongly investors to friday 's u.s. stock market loss because vivid memories of the frankfurt exchange 's 35 % of its value losing in the 1987 crash and its wake had they .
this time , however , may have been hurt many small investors by acting so swiftly .
`` went they all in the wrong direction , '' said andreas insam , an investment adviser for the bank in liechtenstein 's frankfurt branch .
clients selected west german blue chips to buy after fell they by about 10 % told he said he .
after 30 minutes was delayed the opening because of the crush of sell orders , 75 minutes was extended frankfurt 's normal two-hour trading session the heavy volume to handle .
`` was the beginning chaotic , '' said nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank ag .
`` three-quarters of an hour took it before a reading on the market to get could be worked out enough prices '' .
was institutional investors and bankers , far eastern markets , watching spent many of whom the night before in their offices cautiously optimistic after the mild 1.8 % decline in tokyo stock prices .
`` was everybody still confident , including most institutional investors .
'' is that a little why was surprised everybody by the storm of sell orders from small private investors , said norbert braeuer , a senior trader for hessische landesbank .
lower-priced shares picking up began late yesterday , some big institutions , including banks , but what would happen in new york to see before acting wanted most investors .
but if to stabilize , even continue wall street a swift recovery for the frankfurt exchange , which signs of weakness already was showing after had slipped the dax from a 1989 high of 1657.61 on sept. 8 could inhibit the latest blow to investor confidence say analysts here .
was a 16.3 % drop for mannesmann ag and dresdner bank ag 's 9.6 % decline especially problematic for their respective boards , whose plans for major rights issues in november could now be in jeopardy .
last month 1.2 billion marks ( $ 642.2 million ) to raise by four million shares issuing at 300 marks each hoped it said dresdner bank .
dresdner 's share price yet cropped yesterday 's market by 33 marks to 309 marks a share , little incentive for to subscribe investors to the standing price unless recover quickly the market leaving .
headed toward a record drop at midday , two-thirds of its losses recouped the london stock market in the wake of new york 's early rally .
closed off 70.5 points , the financial times-stock exchange 100 share index at 2163.4 , its high for the day , after 204.2 points having plunged at 12:49 p.m .
was it big institutions such as norwich union insurance group , scottish amicable investment managers and standard life assurance co. that the rally spearheaded .
attracted by low prices and encouraged by new york 's performance , equities scooped up they across the board .
was volume 959.3 million shares , more than triple recent levels .
a parachute gave late buying the paris bourse after its free fall early in the day .
ended down 5.4 % the cac general index at 523.6 , a drop of 29.6 points from friday .
`` there was a volatility in the market that have never seen before , i '' said michel vigier , a partner in brokerage firm cholet dupont .
`` when turned around wall street shortly after the opening , there was panic buying in paris '' .
that as that was moving up , wall street spread the news their line changed traders who sell orders to place had called in mid-conversation , buys ordering instead said brokers .
was driven primarily trading by small investors and speculators , with waiting large institutions on the sidelines until late in the day .
when turned wall street , the market , however , entered the big boys looking for bargains .
swung j.p. morgan & co. to a loss in the third quarter , while more than doubled net income , reported ncnb corp. and 10 % rose security pacific corp. net .
as expected , a $ 1.82 billion net loss for the quarter , posted j.p. morgan , the new york bank 's decision last month $ 2 billion to add to reserves for losses on loans to less-developed countries reflecting .
the parent of morgan guaranty trust co. placed the reserve addition among a few major u.s. banks that nearly all their medium and long-term portfolios to less-developed countries have covered with reserves .
$ 9.92 a share equal the latest quarter 's loss .
in the year-earlier quarter , $ 233.6 million , or $ 1.25 a share earned morgan .
the results `` mildly disappointing '' called george m. salem , analyst at prudential-bache securities inc. , .
the $ 2 billion provision excluding and allowing for the taxes paid morgan , was earnings about 65 cents a share , said mr. salem .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , $ 1.50 a share climbed morgan to $ 44.125 .
27 % sank net interest income in the quarter to $ 254 million from $ 347 million .
was the interest rate on short-term funds , which longer-term loans to customers , to finance borrow banks `` sharply higher , '' said morgan .
$ 2 million of interest payments on its medium and long-term brazilian loans received morgan ; interest , had been accruing they net interest income would have been $ 35 million higher in the quarter , said morgan .
classified as non-accruing , $ 10 million of interest income costing the bank in the third period also remain such loans to argentina .
12 % climbed income from sources other than interest to $ 414 million , higher corporate-finance and other fees and gains on sales of investment securities reflecting .
`` was partly offset these increases '' by lower trading-related income , said the bank .
16 % grew non-interest expenses to $ 496 million .
more than doubled ncnb corp. 's net income in the period , largely because of continued strong performance by the bank 's texas operations .
rose earnings to $ 143.6 million , or $ 1.45 a share , from $ 58.9 million , or 69 cents a share , a year earlier said the charlotte , n.c. , company .
a gain of $ 56.1 million , or 59 cents a share , related to the purchase of the remaining 51 % of ncnb texas national bank from the federal deposit insurance corp included the latest quarter .
however , contrasted the strong performance , with an unexpectedly large increase in the size of ncnb 's problem loans , particularly in the southeast .
in the third quarter , jumped nonperforming assets to $ 474.1 million , or 1.43 % of net loans and leases , from $ 232.8 million , or 1.13 % in the second quarter .
$ 230.8 million , or 1.27 % totaled nonperformers in the year-ago third quarter .
included is a $ 33 million loan , which `` to be fully repaid early in the fourth quarter , with no loss , expect it '' said ncnb in the increase in the most recent quarter .
strong loan growth of 17 % in ncnb 's southeast operations , as well as a 28 % growth in deposits resulting from an aggressive marketing campaign offset the deterioration in credit quality .
ncnb 's net interest margin in the southeast squeeze to 3.38 % from 3.80 % a year earlier also helped the higher rates paid on deposits .
in big board composite trading yesterday , $ 3.50 a share , jumped ncnb to $ 51 .
was released results after closed the market .
$ 76.9 million contributed ncnb texas national , formed from the remnants of of the failed first republicbank corp. of dallas , to ncnb 's bottom line in the third quarter .
100 % of earnings of the texas operation since aug. 1 reflect its third-quarter results said ncnb .
some $ 1.9 billion in new capital raised ncnb during the quarter the ncnb texas purchase , to complete and several small failed thrifts to acquire its regional franchise to fill out .
last week , both freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , and university federal savings association of san antonio , texas , purchased it for $ 169.4 million said the banking company .
in the first nine months , 65 % climbed ncnb 's net income to $ 310.9 million , or $ 3.30 a share , from $ 188.2 million , or $ 2.22 a share , a year earlier .
slowed security pacific 's earnings growth in the third quarter , but was the los angeles bank holding company still able a 10 % increase in net income to post because of robust growth in residential real-estate and consumer loans .
a 33 % increase in real estate loans ( mainly residential ) , and a 19 % rise in consumer loans reflecting resulted mainly the gain from a $ 54 million increase in net interest income , said the company .
some low-yielding assets such as inter-bank loans , which to decrease was allowed in effect replaced these high-yielding loans .
as a result , only 13 basis points , a more mild decrease than some major banks outside california , which more sluggish earnings have been reporting fell security pacific 's net interest margin .
closed down 37.5 cents , security pacific shares at $ 44.625 , in big board composite trading .
a 0.89 % return on assets for security pacific , and an 18.9 % return on equity represent the earnings .
continuing real-estate loan losses in the depressed arizona market offset the loan growth .
a 33 % increase in net credit losses for the quarter , to $ 109 million from $ 81.9 million in the year-ago period reported security pacific .
grew slightly nonperforming loans to $ 1.75 billion at sept. 30 , from $ 1.7 billion a year ago .
was down 22 % , or $ 30.4 million , security pacific 's loan-loss provision because added the year before it to its foreign-debt reserve .
6 % fell non-interest income in the quarter , mainly because of an unusual gain a year earlier from the sale of hong kong banking operations .
only 4 % grew non-interest expense in the period .
a position on a revised tender offer by mccaw cellular communications inc. lin to buy wo n't take it and has asked for clarification of the offer said lin broadcasting corp. .
is the new offer , which 50.3 % of the cellular and broadcasting concern , seek for $ 125 a share for 22 million lin shares .
mccaw an auction process to begin in july 1994 that remaining holders would buy out at a per-share price roughly equivalent what to pay for all of lin to might then have a third party would require mccaw 's revised tender offer .
mccaw its tender offer , which an agreement between bellsouth corp. and lin their cellular-telephone businesses to merge challenge to clarify is asking lin .
lin that `` would shortly respond it to the mccaw proposal in as full and effective a manner as is warranted '' have notified bellsouth .
may be misled holders by the provision in the mccaw proposal that `` guarantees '' private market value after five years for the remaining shares said the lin board .
`` no obligation to purchase '' have mccaw and is the definition of private market value uncertain , said the lin board .
that mccaw would be able lin 's operations to control and `` lin could , therefore , operate in a manner which its private market value and attractiveness to a third-party purchaser could diminish in five years '' added the board .
in national over-the-counter trading , closed down $ 2.75 lin at $ 104.75 , .
that is dow jones & co. 's $ 18-a-share offer for the electronic financial information services company `` grossly inadequate '' said a group of institutional investors in telerate inc. .
in a letter filed with the securities and exchange commission , said the group , which about 4.5 million telerate shares , or about 4.7 % of the shares outstanding , hold `` ... '' at present an offer for less than $ 25 per share would be fair believe none of us and that is $ 25 too low believe some .
was dated the letter oct. 6 .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , closed down 75 cents a share telerate shares yesterday at $ 18.875 , .
an $ 18-a-share , or $ 576 million , tender offer the remaining telerate shares outstanding to acquire have launched dow jones , publisher of the wall street journal , ; 67 % of telerate own dow jones .
the offer , which expires nov. 3 have rejected telerate .
putnam cos. and various affiliates based in boston ; wells fargo bank , san francisco ; the california public employees retirement system , sacramento , calif. , and t. rowe price associates inc. , baltimore include the group .
among other issues , `` concern as whether the applicable requirements of procedural fairness to meet dow jones 's offer '' have it said the group 's letter .
the group 's filing , had n't seen he said a spokesman for dow jones but `` obviously disagree dow jones with their conclusions added , .
any and all shares tendered at $ 18 a share to buy is our offer .
that the accord violate canada 's restrictions on exports of pacific salmon and herring have ruled the first dispute-settlement panel set up under the u.s.-canadian `` free '' trade agreement said u.s. trade representative carla hills .
the dispute to resolve have the u.s. and canada until nov. 13 said mrs. hills .
if is n't reached a solution by then , said she , the right some trade concessions to canada equivalent in value to the losses suffered by u.s. fish-processing companies in alaska and the pacific northwest to suspend would have the u.s. .
in ottawa , the `` legitimacy of canada 's position on the use of these landing requirements these important fisheries to conserve and manage '' accepted the dispute-settlement panel however , said canadian trade minister john crosbie .
questioned about the seeming contradiction in the u.s. and canadian government views of the panel 's report , that `` is the canadian trade restrictions illegal '' had clearly ruled the panel said an aide for mrs. hills .
a dollar estimate to put on the losses resulting from the canadian export restrictions declined the u.s. trade representative .
an export prohibition that was replaced by regulations that to be brought ashore prior to export in british columbia by commercial fishermen had such fish requiring initially had canada .
was defended this action by the canadian government on conservation grounds .
that this canadian government argument rejected the dispute-settlement panel said mrs. hills yesterday .
`` that will comply canada with the panel 's ruling that also must be ended the `` landing requirement '' , fully expect we '' said she .
that gatt rules violated the original canadian fish-export restrictions earlier , determined an international panel set up under the rules of the general agreement on tariffs and trade in geneva .
any delays wo n't accept the u.s. after nov. 13 because the next season 's catch to purchase enter u.s. fish-processing firms into contracts in the fall said mrs. hills .
must be removed the canadian restrictions before is concluded such contracts said she .
to spend a carefree , idle day , when call duty , no heed , to pay the precious hours to while away -- what need you is character .
that his lips can read we at home should somehow be advised the guy who an intercept throw 'cause slip his receiver .
a restructuring agreement previously agreed to by the federal deposit insurance corp. , creditor banks and subordinated debenture holders completed it said bancoklahoma corp. .
the bank holding company its bank and debenture obligations to retire through exchanges of cash and equity would permit the plan .
$ 90 million in preferred stock to maintain in the tulsa bank unit will continue the fdic , which in 1986 $ 130 million in open-bank assistance provided to bancoklahoma 's bank of oklahoma , tulsa , unit .
in exchange for the other $ 40 million , additional warrants it 60 % of bancoklahoma 's common stock outstanding , to buy up from the 55 % option received the fdic under terms of the 1986 capital infusion entitling will receive the fdic .
in exchange for the $ 76 million is owed they , 3.9 million shares of bancoklahoma common stock and the proceeds from the future sales of four subsidiary banks to private buyers , will receive creditor banks said the bank holding company .
also under the agreement , one million shares of common stock will get debenture holders in exchange for $ 7.7 million in debentures and 1.25 shares of common stock for every share of preferred own they , will receive holders of bancoklahoma 's series a preferred stock said the company .
were it true that the way for trade surpluses , pave a weak currency then presumably argentina would be the center of today 's global economy .
an offer will begin it tomorrow up to one million of its common shares and all of its $ 16.6 million in 7 3/4 % convertible debentures due 2001 to exchange for a package of new debt and common stock warrants said bsn corp. .
under terms of the offer , $ 9 face amount of 9 1/4 % subordinated notes due 1996 and one warrant will swap the sporting goods maker for each common share .
the holder one bsn share to buy for $ 10.75 a share at any time over the next seven years allow each warrant .
4.6 million common shares outstanding currently have bsn .
$ 850 face amount of new notes and 64 common-stock warrants also is offering bsn for each $ 1,000 face amount of its convertible debt outstanding .
the warrants can redeem it at its option for $ 1 each said the company .
is the offer n't contingent on a certain amount of debt or stock being exchanged .
the offer is making it its capital to shrink and shareholder value increase said bsn .
if the offer , accept all the bondholders and holders of one million common shares its debt will increase bsn by $ 9 million , but a $ 2 million gain from the old debt , retiring also will recognize it said michael j. blumenfeld , president .
`` sufficient cash flow that , to handle have we '' said he .
to expire in mid to late november is scheduled the offers .
37 % , dropped merrill lynch & co. 's net income while a 7.5 % gain in net , posted bear stearns cos. and fell painewebber group inc. 's profit , but would have risen a year ago without a special gain .
$ 2.83 billion , reached up 10 % from $ 2.57 billion total revenue .
weaker revenue in transactions for its own account -- a decline of 19 % to $ 314.6 million on reduced revenue from fixed-income securities trading reflected the firm 's drop in net .
22 % fell investment banking revenue to $ 296.6 million on fewer equity and municipal underwritings .
21 % , grew however , merrill lynch 's commission revenue to $ 462.8 million , on higher share prices and volume and on strong sales of mutual funds .
30 % jumped revenue derived from interest and dividends to $ 1.4 billion .
12 % grew asset-management fee revenue to $ 151 million .
a loss of $ 2.2 million from the discontinued operations and disposal of its fine homes international limited partnership real-estate subsidiary also reported the brokerage .
$ 22.1 million , or 23 cents a share , reached net in the first quarter ended sept. 29 from $ 20.5 million , or 20 cents a share , in the year-earlier quarter said bear stearns .
21 % rose gross revenue to $ 580.4 million from $ 478.9 million .
dropped profit from trading for its own account , said the securities firm .
25 % , climbed investment banking revenue while 31 % advanced commission revenue on a stronger retail market .
is bear stearns the holding company for bear , stearns & co. , the investment banking and brokerage firm .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed down 25 cents bear stearns shares at $ 13.625 , .
net income for the third quarter of $ 16.8 million , or 41 cents a share , a `` broad-based improvement '' in the company 's core businesses reflecting separately , posted painewebber .
surged retail profit , but was it only a `` modest contributor '' to third-quarter results said the company .
a year ago , was net at the new york investment banking firm $ 20.9 million , or 50 cents a share , including a special pretax gain of $ 46.3 million from the sale of the company 's interest in national car rental systems inc .
was revenue $ 444.9 million , including net interest , down slightly from $ 450.7 million .
in big board composite trading yesterday , closed up 75 cents painewebber at $ 18.50 , .
an agreement with builder martin selig its headquarters building , the columbia seafirst center , to purchase for $ 354 million signed it said seafirst corp. .
is purchase of the 76-story structure subject to execution of a definitive agreement , approval by the boards of seafirst and its parent company bankamerica corp. , and approval by regulators .
any cash crunch apparently have n't triggered yet the market upheaval -- .
liquidity and payment problems can suffer individual investors , investment firms and arbitragers who speculate in the stocks of takeover candidates when dive stocks ; their holdings to buy often borrow heavily those investors and the stocks use as collateral for loans .
but no signs of unusual demand for credit that such difficulties would signal detected they said several large banks yesterday .
`` nothing out of the ordinary , be seeing we '' said one official at a top 10 bank .
`` be that good news , because swim we all in this water . ''
`` was we all a little goosey over the weekend what would happen -lcb- monday -rcb- , to forecast trying but it 's been very quiet added another executive at a big bank : .
that another meltdown in prices to handle is not yet sufficiently coordinated financial markets shows what happened friday .
markets will ever prevent no fiddling with systems and procedures from a panic wave of selling suffering .
but can operate markets with greater or lesser efficiency .
after the 1987 plunge , that it would be wise trading to halt whenever arose panic conditions agreed markets .
two specific circuit breakers : if 250 points fall the dow jones index in a day , the exchange will halt trading for one hour ; if 400 points , hit the decline will close the exchange for an additional two hours adopted the new york stock exchange .
that investors their strategies , to reconsider sellers calm and buyers the market to enter at indicated new price levels lead will allow an interruption of trading is the rationale .
is it impossible to whether that theory is realistic know .
a selling panic may indeed discourage a temporary cessation of trading from feeding on itself .
but there is also the possibility that fears will intensify markets shutting down and an even more abrupt slide in prices cause .
their own pre-set circuit breakers followed the futures exchanges and shut down at about 3 p.m. for 30 minutes , after 12 points , or about 100 points on the dow jones index had fallen the standard & poor 's 500 stock index .
trading in many securities stopped options markets .
under its own rules , open remained the new york stock exchange , .
with nowhere else to go , all their selling focused sellers , and particularly program traders , on the new york stock exchange .
as weakened liquidity on that market , fell sharply prices .
had the futures and options markets been open , would have been provided additional liquidity and the decline , most probably , would have been less intense .
at 3:30 , after intense telephone negotiations between the trading markets and washington , reopened the futures exchanges .
however , was halted altogether futures trading , at 3:45 , after an additional 30 points , which is the daily limit for price declines had dropped the futures markets .
at this point , also shut down the options markets and all sales to be handled by the new york stock exchange once more left .
is it time that so closely intertwined as one market to constitute effectively though physically separate , have actually become the new york stock exchange , the futures markets and the options markets , to recognize .
their strategies can vary traders and their orders execute in any one of them .
no sense therefore make it for different circuit breakers to adopt each market .
the slide in prices on friday , would not have halted synchronized circuit breakers but probably would have made they for smoother , less volatile executions .
it 's time for to agree the exchanges and the securities and exchange commission on joint conditions for trading halting or open staying .
's let shut down one market for 30 minutes 100 points when decline the dow and shut down another for an hour after a 250-point decline not have .
will disappear the need for hurried last-minute telephone negotiations among market officials once is rules in place that circuit breakers synchronize in all markets .
if to be applied at all , is they that continue as long as open remain the new york stock exchange futures and options trading will require the new circuit breakers , .
should be established the rules by agreement of the officials of all affected exchanges acting under the oversight and with the approval of the government regulatory agencies .
should the sec and the commodities futures trading commission ( which , with the sec , the chicago stock-index markets regulates ) be unable to agree , to be resolved by decision of the treasury secretary may have the issue .
in many ways , a decline to handle is better prepared our financial markets today than was two years ago they .
the capacity a volume of nearly a billion shares a day to handle now have the new york stock exchange .
have been improved telephone service for customers their brokers , to reach trying and larger capital positions have specialists -- who should stay , believe i despite the urgings of some post-crash critics -- .
( of course , a major crack in stock prices can never prevent specialists ' actions alone .
the fact that closed early friday trading in some stocks and opened late monday because of an excess of sell orders witness ) .
but unfinished remain the task of market performance improving .
is mr. freund , former chief economist of the new york stock exchange , a professor of economics at pace university 's business school in new york .
labor problems and prospects for u.s. firms pose a unified europe .
the effort could set the `` social dimension '' -- worker concerns -- of the european community 's plan its internal borders to open in 1992 `` off the rails '' if not done reasonably , say general electric senior vice president frank doyle .
`` tough pressure '' from unions face u.s. companies to expand in europe wanting in nations such as west germany , which a big consulting role play in management decisions , say he .
plant relocations and needed restructuring , which layoffs mean also wo n't like unions say fmc corp. and baxter international .
moving to southern countries such as spain and italy , where is wages low and is unions weaker have already begun many employers ; will rise there , demand for trained labor and managers say fmc .
big `` ec '' 92 pluses : a push for job training and ease in moving and workers finding see pfizer , fluor and ge .
so said a federal judge , in a case two players for the minor league bluefield , va. , orioles , a baltimore farm team involving .
was heckled the players by a patron during a july 4 , 1988 , game with the martinsville phillies .
like its parent that year , `` was not having bluefield a good year , '' said the judge .
after the game ( `` three runners stranding in ... the ninth , lost 9-8 , bluefield , '' noted he ) , began trouble .
said the players , led more taunting in the parking lot , to a fight .
was punched he and kicked by one player and that his jaw broke the other with a baseball bat said the fan .
the fan 's suit against the team , dismissed however , the judge the orioles innocent of negligent hiring , and not responsible for a fight that was outside the players ' employment ruling .
arise proposals for coping with the shortage of nurses .
nurses freeing from duties that special skills do n't require urge an association of academic health centers report .
better retirement and day-care benefits , and pay basing on education , experience and nurses ' demanding work schedules also recommend it .
but an american medical association proposal for a `` registered care technologist , '' creating oppose it as `` potentially divisive '' ; an unwanted new doctor 's `` bedside '' extension would entail the job say it .
nurses sign up mra staffing systems for paid travel , annual income up to $ 50,000 and free or subsidized housing promising .
employees treating with respect is crucial for managers , say consultant hay group after surveys of a million workers .
be it in their top five `` work values . ''
be satisfied they with where work they say fully 80 % of employees who them treat their bosses with respect , say but only a third of those who respected do n't feel .
the digs sprucing up : for four months walls , painted about 200 employees of the maryland department of economic and employment development floors , polished and carpeted plants , bought windows and blinds , cleaned and pictures hung at the agency 's baltimore office .
$ 55,000 will save the 3,000 hours of work the state .
high priority will get again wage boosts curbing in 1990 collective bargaining , indicate a bureau of national affairs survey of 250 companies with pacts expiring next year .
despite labor-shortage warnings , aim 80 % for first-year wage increases of under 4 % ; and workers , to replace 'd try they if struck , or it would consider say 77 % .
good educations , have temporary workers say the national association of temporary services ; 82 % with more than a high-school education , and 31 % with college degrees show its survey of 2,508 such employees .
have retired about 12 % from a full-time job , while full time to stay on was asked 54 % .
rise home-sale losses , but be often covered they by employers .
but search they for ways the damage to limit .
reimburse about 72 % for all or some losses .
since 1984 , sales-loss aid , give more companies as depreciated many real-estate values , say the council .
up to $ 30,000 of losses , including improvements pay rjr nabisco .
loss coverage , wo n't ensure goodrich but a `` catastrophic loss '' will prevent ; the full purchase price when fell values from concern over dangers posed by a disposal site have given it some employees .
the home will buy federal express , dow chemical , ford and national city corp. or sell the worker to an outside firm , let but a loss usually wo n't cover .
since 1984 , rose firms prepurchase house appraisals , offering overpaying , to deter to 40 % of those polled the council , from 28 % .
the checkoff : a $ 350,000 achievement award give the national academy of engineering two inventors of the semiconductor microchip ... .
now , be that reactionary : philadelphia postmaster charles james accuse letter carriers union president vincent sombrotto of `` 12th century ... oppressive management tactics .
was yesterday , in the words of new york stock exchange chairman john j. phelan jr. , just your `` reasonably normal , 400 million-share , up 88-points day . ''
when was over it all and a huge recovery , had staged stocks was big board officials self-congratulatory about how well had gone the day .
could n't have performed better the exchange 's trading procedures , personnel , equipment and links with other exchanges said they .
`` no operating problems at all , had we '' said mr. phelan after closed the market .
`` worked extremely well all the things that the process , to slow down people to let that was the market in an extreme position , know set up we '' .
was carried prices for the 416.3 million shares that hands changed during the session on the exchange 's trading tape with barely a delay , said officials .
while blockbuster proportions reaching yesterday , was the volume still well within the 600 million-share capacity that can handle daily it since its computers beefing up after the october 1987 crash have said the exchange .
was n't triggered the so-called circuit breakers free falls in stock and futures prices to quell devised by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange yesterday because was the markets higher for most of the day .
despite traders ' complaints , as planned a cooling-off period to provide worked the links with the chicago futures market in friday 's rout said mr. phelan .
of greater help , said the big board chairman , was the `` natural circuit breaker '' of the weekend , that a breathing period `` rationality brought back that to the market provided .
ruffled chicken chains by loss of customers
some new marketing strategies to hatch is struggling fast-food chicken chains , faced with a worsening business slump , .
10 % fell customer traffic at chicken restaurants in the second quarter , while was down 2 % the overall fast-food customer count say the crest report , which consumer purchases , track .
is chicken business off largely because of more competition from grocery-store convenience food , home-delivered pizza and other takeout fare , say a spokesman for the report , a publication of npd group , a market research firm in port washington , n.y .
is the loss of more customers the latest in a string of problems .
is still troubled church 's fried chicken inc. and popeye 's famous fried chicken inc. , which have merged , by overlapping restaurant locations .
more pressure from mcdonald 's corp. , which its mcchicken sandwich introduced this year and the sale of individual pieces of chicken recently tested also is feeling chicken chains .
have fought back new management at kentucky fried chicken , a unit of pepsico inc. , with new medium and large chicken sandwiches for the lunch crowd .
and products that are n't fried , such as `` char-grilled '' chicken , is testing the chain health-conscious consumers to win to try .
home-delivery of chicken , which could be a hit with stay-at-home diners also is testing kentucky fried chicken .
but must be solved first problems with chicken warm and fresh keeping say some fast-food industry analysts .
the notion that problems in some markets where have been discontinued testing experienced the delivery service however , disputed a kentucky fried chicken spokesman , .
is continuing the test in chicago , columbus , ohio , and a few other cities say he .
is buzzing the advertising industry with rumors that young & rubicam will drop kentucky fried chicken and a new ad agency seek .
but to comment decline the company .
an 11 % drop in 1989 net income will post kentucky fried chicken predict emanuel goldman , a painewebber inc. analyst , .
`` they 've been laggard , '' say he , `` but '' more aggressive to become 'll have they .
soft-sell spots try reluctant advertisers
a soft approach is selling pittsburgh consultant david bear to clients who exposure want yet pushy ads shun .
his ploy : 60-second radio spots that helpful hints offer .
is the only plug for the sponsor a brief mention at the end of the spot .
the business traveler , a daily dose of travel tips developed by mr. bear and sponsored by travel agencies in several major cities resemble the messages .
burt hill kosar rittlemann associates , a butler , pa. , architectural firm include new un-advertisers .
such spots as `` floodlights : evening wear for urban structures '' and `` a place to park building '' feature its radio series .
say john kosar , the firm 's president , `` would detract a harder sell , from the profession '' .
the messages to use fundraisers , to promote have signed up hospitals and the format is considering equitable gas co. energy tips to offer to consumers .
`` there be always a risk of lost messages , '' say john fitzgerald , chairman of ketchum advertising usa , which similar radio spots created for pittsburgh national bank .
`` be it a question of how much credibility gain you for the possible loss of recognition . ''
pitfalls see retailer in environmental push
here be a retailer that tough 's getting in the push for environmentally safe packaging and products .
shelf cards to display and pamphlets distribute products safe for the environment deemed recommending plan big bear supermarkets inc. , a grocery chain based in san diego , .
will be based the choices on research by the san diego environmental health coalition and products like murphy 's oil soap and other noncorrosive cleaners will include .
but the pitfalls of such endorsements is quickly realizing the chain .
for example , nonchlorinated dishwasher detergent recommend it and sunlight put on its environmentally safe list .
procter & gamble co. , maker of cascade dishwasher detergent do n't thrill that .
the validity of the list , questioned a company spokesman that is chlorine present in all major dishwasher detergents noting .
in fact , that chlorine bleach , do contain its sunlight brand though even is n't listed it on the label for the powder version confirm lever bros. .
its product list is still reviewing the chain such problems to avoid said thomas g. dahlen , big bear 's executive vice president , .
`` the best alternative , to promote is our intent '' say he .
`` and be it important that we be accurate . ''
but in the end , what will prevail is customers ' wishes .
do n't care big bear for disposable diapers , which are n't biodegradable .
yet them demand parents .
`` items might not philosophically agree we with to sell 'll still be forced we '' say mr. dahlen , .
do count neatness -- at least in the grocery store .
5 % climbed soap sales when was neatly stacked bars on shelves instead of dumped in a wire basket show a study by safeway 's scanner marketing research ... .
is which celebrity endorsers most believable ?
for the third year in a row , bill cosby first and james garner second in persuasiveness as spokesmen in tv commercials , voted consumers according to video storyboard tests , new york .
bruce willis replaced michael j. fox in third place ; fourth placed cher for the second time .
antonia novello to be the next surgeon general , have chosen health and human services secretary louis sullivan said bush administration officials .
if is nominated she by president bush and confirmed by the senate , c. everett koop , who liberals and conservatives alike rattled with his outspoken views on a range of health issues would succeed dr. novello .
is dr. novello , an expert on pediatric kidney diseases , deputy director of the national institute of child health and human development .
have also served she on several task forces on acquired immune deficiency syndrome .
would n't talk she with reporters , said dr. novello 's office and any information about her to release refused it .
said the newsletter medicine & health , which her selection by dr. sullivan , first disclosed is she 44 years old and studied she at the university of puerto rico school of medicine .
is the continuing series of hud scandals a sadly predictable result of pork-barrel politics .
capitol hill to pressure for more special-interest spending nevertheless , continue lobbies such as the national association of home builders ( nahb ) .
that a multifaceted housing crisis -- reduced affordability of homes for first-time buyers , increased homelessness , and lower apartment construction rates -- that will be `` very difficult '' to solve `` without expanded federal resources '' face the u.s. argue kent colton , nahb executive vice president , .
there be nothing unusual about business groups pushing for more government spending .
but was created the nahb out of an organization that its name a roosevelt administration proposal to take over all defense housing production fighting made in 1943 .
`` have dropped the hud budget by more than 70 % since 1980 , '' argue mr. colton .
`` more than our fair share have taken we .
a problem would n't have i if a similar hit had taken other programs '' .
but is not related nahb support for subsidies to the current housing crunch ; over the years a host of public programs have backed the nahb .
once pushed it for a national housing production goal set by the federal government and anti-recession housing measures have regularly advanced .
explain one hud official , susceptible to internal pressure from members that specialize in subsidized production moreover , remain the nahb .
an extensive and expensive wish-list , which spending would substantially boost above the current level of more than $ 15 billion annually is pushing the association .
the ceiling on federal housing administration mortgage guarantees to peg to 95 % of the median price in a particular market , instead of it limiting to $ 101,250 ; fha down-payment requirements reduce ( or even eliminate ) and the availability of variable-rate mortgages increase ; the veterans affairs department loan guarantee program expand ; `` adequate '' funding for the farmers home administration ( fmha ) provide ; federal funding and tax incentives for the construction of low-income and rental housing , including $ 4 billion in block grants to states and localities increase ; and `` the mckinney act , a $ 656 million potpourri for the homeless fully fund '' would like it .
intolerably expensive have proved direct federal subsidies for housing construction in the past , and inevitably are twisted to the benefit of well-connected developers and lobbyists , as demonstrated by the ongoing hud scandal , or congressmen .
through the fha , for instance , is indirect subsidies , little better .
though would result fha lending expanding in `` no cost to the government , '' say mr. colton would result the mere diversion of funds from other parts of the economy and from other forms of housing ( such as low-income ) to the single-family home market in a major expense .
more important , is housing programs run by hud , the va , and fmha awash in red ink .
$ 4.2 billion lost the fha alone in fiscal 1988 ; fell the government 's equity in the agency , essentially its reserve fund , to minus $ 2.9 billion .
$ 2.28 billion to pump in into the va housing program since 1984 the fund afloat to keep have had the federal government and an additional $ 120 million requested the va for the fiscal year just ended .
more than $ 900 billion of mortgages all told , already guarantee the federal government .
in its nicely produced publication `` where will live our children ? '' that `` of course , can not be provided the full measure of housing affordability by the federal government '' do acknowledge the nahb .
point it to the pernicious impact of local government regulation , particularly zoning and building fees , which the price of housing push out of the reach of low- and middle-income people .
but while actions that regulatory barriers , to reduce should take states and localities have suggested the nahb no activist legislative program -- comparable to , say , its detailed request for more federal subsidies -- counterproductive controls to eliminate have proposed the association .
is the association , fewer than 25 units a year , build a majority of whose 156,000 members like many other business lobbies .
`` tread it in two worlds explain sheila macdonald of the national taxpayers union : .
the subsidies , like the builders but at the same time to be fiscal conservatives in terms of major issues , such as the balanced-budget amendment tend they '' .
its commitment to overall fiscal responsibility to override unfortunately , tend the organization 's desire for pork .
when lobbied the nahb for the $ 19 billion omnibus housing bill , `` two years ago basically dropped the organization out of the taxpayers ' coalition , '' say ms. macdonald .
as acknowledge mr. colton of the nahb : `` the problem to solve is not going government ... .
working the economy and interest rates down to have is the real key '' .
the deficit will increase more money for hud and the economy destabilize ; them will further insulate more money to municipalities that their local housing markets is wrecking from the destructive effects of their policies .
is this what want the home builders ?
is mr. bandow a cato institute fellow .
( related story : `` and bills true come wishes to make '' -- wsj oct. 17 , 1989 see .
in an attempt new momentum to give to european community plans for a single currency , is ec government leaders likely a date for formal talks on the ec 's founding treaty of rome amending starting to set to agree .
according to diplomatic sources in brussels , that should begin talks in the second half of 1990 , and a declaration on that will make during a summit meeting in strasbourg , france , on dec. 8 and 9 agree most ec leaders .
come the only strong opposition the ec treaty to changing from british prime minister margaret thatcher , who is opposed a single ec currency to creating .
but unanimity do n't require the process of the intergovernmental conference convening .
a date for the conference to set fought french president francois mitterrand during the ec summit in madrid last june , but was scuttled the move because of opposition by mrs. thatcher and west german chancellor helmut kohl .
a date for the conference to set clear that is still committed it west germany to ec unity to make may now agree mr. kohl said diplomatic sources .
me remind the latest crewcut in the equities markets of the joke tell t. boone pickens about the guy who was run over by the parade .
`` what went wrong '' when asked ? `` was it a combination of things '' replied the unfortunate victim , .
and so was it on gray friday .
to have been excess leverage would appear the grand marshal of this parade .
if even is so , that however , be it probably the case that the procession to stop before the end of the rout ( e ) should have been erected no barriers .
began the ceremonies friday afternoon that was collapsing the ual buy-out when spread word .
although a substitute offer , consisting of less cash , to patch together expect the union-bidder a growing fear among arbitragers that is ending the pageant of high-leverage takeover deals confirmed the failure cash to get from japanese and american banks .
the parade , made up lots of other entries of course -- notably a surprisingly large increase in producer prices , federal reserve tightness signalling ; and the bush administration 's ( temporary ? ) defeat in the capital-gains tax to lower trying .
as usual , was heard few favorable reviews for that ever-present marching band of program traders , although the music that write others only play they suggest most serious studies .
what the crowds along wall street , really spooked however , was the sudden concern that , whatever the reason , is drying up the pool of debt capital .
a panic mainly by the takeover arbitragers , rather than the small investor , reflect gray friday as is jeopardized their highly margined investments in the `` deal '' stocks by the unexpected drying up of the lubricant for deal financing .
the market led down deal stocks as the heaviest losses absorbed they .
opened down about 20 % from thursday 's close ual , which the slide , triggered monday at $ 224 , .
opened down nearly 20 % from thursday 's close amr monday at $ 80 , .
20 % lost hilton on friday ; almost 11 % lost paramount .
that where have been secured deal financing , was not affected the target 's stock price on friday reveal a careful look .
was the multibillion-dollar prospects , a consortium of banks where must line up the bidder and/or issue billions in high-yield debt , where was concentrated the damage .
the stage have been setting the market for so-called junk bonds for friday 's dramatic march for several weeks .
a pall have cast the growing financial difficulties of recent high-leverage restructurings or takeovers , such as resorts international , integrated resources , and campeau 's retailing empire , over the entire market for high-yield securities .
have reacted investors by recent efforts junk bonds to float by ohio mattress ignoring and by ramada its planned junk-bond sale and restructuring to postpone indefinitely forcing .
as a result , have declined high-yield mutual funds across the board and anxious times is experiencing the many firms $ 11 billion in junk bonds to sell before year-end planning .
is these all market excesses ( the artificial boosts that give the tax code to debt over equity putting aside ) , and is what 've seen we them reining in the market .
of course , washington had n't been silent in the days leading up to the debacle , and a troublesome prospect , remain its tendency to meddle in the leverage equation but us should n't distract those preliminary steps from the basic market fundamentalism that was at work on friday .
if is it correct that caused concerns over corporate debt and lbos gray friday , to find what is the implications for policy makers ?
the anti-debt direction of regulators to confirm after all , might be taken the stock market 's response to the collapse of the ual deal .
is this a case where is approving private markets of washington 's bashing of wall street ?
to the extent that a sudden reappraisal of the excesses of leverage , reflected friday 's sell-off that is wall street and the private markets fully capable of the appropriate incentives and sanctions imposing on corporate behavior is the message .
the private interests of bankers and investors be the ultimate judges of the investment quality of various lbo deals and leveraged restructurings allowing is much better served the national economic interests .
the wisdom of operate the free markets letting underscore the recent difficulties in the junk-bond markets and the scarcity of bank capital for recent deals .
if excessive , become takeover premiums if too aggressive , become lbo dealmakers these problems then will recognize more quickly and accurately than will policy makers , the private market and appropriate sanctions to impose will move the markets with lightning speed .
yes , got caught up the broader exchanges in the spiral , but the tiger rode up they all year .
not surprisingly , sometimes bite he .
got killed the arbitragers and takeover initiatiors on gray friday , while cheered lustily the besieged managers of prospective targets .
if identify you with the besieged managers , that is speedy and effective relief from the excesses of the takeover market more likely to come from the marketplace than from washington must concede you .
if side you with the arbitragers and raiders , more to fear from private investors than from regulators , clearly have you although should never be underestimated the delaware courts .
politics understand better than economics washington is the truth , .
although is probably not harmed too much the average citizen from washington 's rhetorical war against wall street excessive financial leveraging , regarding considerable harm would probably impose actual legislation .
is any such attempt `` good debt '' to distinguish from `` bad debt , '' or the line to draw at a particular industry , such as the airlines , likely the spur that provide the proper amount of leverage both to equity markets and economic efficiency in general to blunt .
far better for to concentrate policy makers on the war against drugs , panama and the deficit , all of them parades that never to end seem .
teach mr. jarrell , former top economist at the securities and exchange commission , at the university of rochester 's simon business school .
rebounded tokyo share prices tuesday morning , with 618.69 points rising the nikkei index of 225 selected stocks to close the morning session at 35087.38 .
647.33 points , or 1.8 % , slid the index on monday .
in the first 25 minutes of tuesday 's trading 664.83 points , soared the nikkei index to 35133.83 .
by 10 a.m. tokyo time , was up 435.11 points , to 34903.80 the index as new york 's overnight rally hailed investors .
came monday 's slide in a relatively calm session that much direction did n't provide for other markets .
also closed sharply lower shares across europe , particularly in frankfurt , although some ground recovered london and a few other markets after to rebound in new york began stocks .
sharper losses than tokyo , had other asian and pacific markets but stopped short of another market crash precipitating the selling wave .
was all eyes on tokyo at the opening because was it the first major market to trade since friday 's 190.58-point plunge on wall street .
but rather than the tone set for other markets , to remain on the sidelines chose japan 's major institutional investors .
despite the sudden reappearance of stock-market turbulence , u.s. or european equities to unload was n't planning they still , said managers of japanese investment funds .
`` did n't trade much we today , as to wait and see , is our policy now '' said a fund manager at taisho life insurance co .
`` to wait and see until go around trading through europe and new york would like we '' .
confident that orderly trading to ensure would step in japanese regulators if necessary , appeared the institutions and there was considerable speculation during the day that just that to do was working the finance ministry behind the scenes .
but in the absence of panicky trading , was never overtly felt its presence .
at the close , stood down 647.33 points , or 1.8 % the nikkei average of 225 stocks at 34468.69 , .
45.66 , or 1.7 % , sank the broader tokyo stock price index to 2600.88 .
was the day 's decline generally in line with analysts ' weekend predictions .
advancers , swamped 941-105 declining issues .
but was volume thin at 526.2 million shares , compared with 574.7 million friday .
opened sharply lower , the market with the nikkei average down nearly 600 after 20 minutes .
it brought back a midmorning rebound a gain of about 200 to show at the end of the morning session , but failed the rally in the afternoon , and closed the market near the day 's low .
their biggest decline of the year also posted the smaller stocks in the tokyo market 's second section .
100.96 , or 2.7 % , fell the tokyo stock exchange index for the second section to 3655.40 .
have flocked many investors , the market 's major indexes , to outperform trying to these small issues in recent weeks .
relief that did n't fall more sharply the tokyo market expressed japanese investors and traders .
but some resemblance to events of two years ago , during the october 1987 global stock market crash did bear its performance .
on oct. 16 , 1987 -- the friday before the black monday crash -- 4.6 % , dropped the new york market and followed tokyo on monday with a 2.4 % drop .
this time , was followed wall street 's plunge of 6.9 % friday by yesterday 's 1.8 % loss in tokyo .
two years ago , came tokyo 's biggest fall the day after new york 's 22.6 % black monday plunge , 14.9 % when fell the nikkei average .
yesterday thus , was looking ahead nervously market participants to wall street 's opening .
but in new york yesterday , 88.12 surged the dow jones industrial average to close at 2657.38 on heavy volume of 416,290,000 shares , although advancing ones still outnumbered declining issues on the broad market .
yesterday 's session `` a good scenario '' for japan called nobuto yasuda , a director at yamaichi investment trust & management co. , .
`` now is looking we for the time buy orders , to place '' said he .
`` for us institutional investors , have come the chance for buying '' .
also was isao ushikubo , general manager of the investment research department at toyo trust & banking co. , optimistic .
friday 's plunge in the u.s. described he as a `` fleeting '' event resulting in part from excessive merger and acquisition activity .
`` unless there is a panic , is this the best time to buy , as was the case two years ago , '' said he .
`` was dashed those shares which gains had posted on m&a speculation with cold water , but as far as is concerned major stocks , there is n't much impact '' .
was other fund managers similarly sanguine .
`` no plans our asset allocation in foreign equities , to adjust have we '' said masato murakami , chief portfolio manager in the pension fund management department at yasuda trust & banking co .
was friday 's wall street decline `` well within the range of volatility '' that for plan yasuda trust its overseas investment strategy when chart it said he .
among other asian and pacific markets , the biggest losses , had malaysia and singapore with 11.5 % falling the kuala lumpur composite index in malaysia and singapore 's straits times industrial index down 10 % .
more than 8 % in australia and new zealand and 6.5 % in hong kong declined major indexes .
escaped bangkok , manila , seoul , taipei and jakarta with slightly smaller losses .
was reacting the region 's markets to friday 's wall street plunge even though was that decline due to local factors such as failed corporate buy-outs and a deteriorating junk-bond market said brokers and fund managers .
`` be it pure psychology , '' said william au yeung , an account executive for drexel burnham lambert ( hk ) ltd. in hong kong .
`` is n't so geared markets in this region to leveraged buy-outs , and generally is their economies in good shape , but there be no doubt that america 's lead is still following asia '' .
the biggest losses had malaysia and singapore because is they relatively open to rapid cash flows said several analysts .
is hong kong the region 's next most open market , but have been staying away many foreign investors from it since plunged it in june amid political turmoil in china .
`` the hit took singapore to get out , when want people to go where is the liquidity , because tend they '' said elizabeth hambrecht , a regional analyst with baring securities ( hong kong ) ltd .
that even after monday 's 10 % decline , is up 24 % the straits times index this year , pointed out she so generally did so profitably investors who bailed out .
yesterday 27.5 % above its 1988 close similarly , ended kuala lumpur 's composite index .
in hong kong , 180.60 fell the hang seng index to finish at 2601.70 .
was trading heavy at about one billion shares , compared with 473.9 million friday .
but was the session orderly , in contrast to the market 's four-day closure after the 1987 crash .
bottom probably have n't hit yet the market but is close said richard chenevix-trench , a director at hong kong-based baring international fund managers ltd. , .
`` if do n't collapse new york , maybe another 5 % see i on the downside , the risk of bad news out of china , not counting '' said he .
in australia , closed down 8.1 % , sydney 's all ordinaries index at 1601.5 , its biggest drop since october 1987 .
but rose only volume to 162 million shares from 143 million friday .
the market 's performance described nestor hinzack , an analyst at brokerage firm burdett , buckeridge & young ltd. , as `` sheep-like '' as fled investors to bluechip australian stocks and entrepreneurial companies perceived they as built any takeover premium into the price having shunned .
ended down 70.5 , or 3.2 % london 's financial times-stock exchange 100-share index , the most closely watched market barometer , at its intraday high of 2163.4 , .
at its low , before shortly opened wall street , was off more than 130 points it .
closed 79.3 points lower the financial times 30-share index at 1738.7 .
more than doubled volume to 959.3 million shares from 457.7 million friday .
tumbled prices on the frankfurt stock exchange in heavy trading .
was the decline in the german stock index of 203.56 points , or 12.8 % , to 1385.72 the frankfurt market 's steepest fall ever .
holdings dumped retail investors on a massive scale , some blue-chip shares pushing down as much as 20 % .
memories of two years ago , when held many small investors on to their shares after the october crash but to decline steeply for the next three months continued the west german market cited analysts .
them directly comparable , to make is based each index on 100 equaling the close of 1969 .
is the percentage change since year-end .
that if the world tipped you on its side , would end up everything loose in california to have said once is reported frank lloyd wright .
that california 's vitality , underestimated mr. wright have always thought we but the forces that it such a significant place made to overwhelm maybe is starting the state 's la-la factions .
if passed by the voters , major pesticides , would phase out the recently announced initiative carbon dioxide emissions reduce by 40 % , new offshore drilling , ban chemicals the ozone layer , to deplete thought ban and a new state environmental officer armed with a $ 40 million budget any firm or agency is being too dirty think he to sue create .
is based largely the initiative on the wish-lists of the green lobby : the sierra club , the league of conservation voters , the natural resources defense council , the national toxics campaign and the citizens for a better environment .
nothing to do with this one interestingly , is having the environmental defense fund .
would pay not only californians but all americans if passed this thing .
the sale of any crops in california that the initiative 's standards do n't meet bar the initiative .
to adjust or the california market give up would have kansas wheat farmers and florida fruit growers .
in other words , control of the nation 's farm policy to take is presuming california .
as usual is disconnected the green lobby 's proposal from scientific reality .
a reduction of carbon dioxide of 40 % would mandate the proposed initiative .
if even buys one into the whole greenhouse theory , is it inconceivable that any impact on what is billed as a global problem could have reductions in a single state .
under these circumstances is the first place to look at the ways in which will benefit the sponsors themselves .
here is the key the ambition of state attorney general john van de kamp .
be running he for governor .
is mr. van de kamp the one who the plans collected from the various radical environmental groups and them cobbled into a single unwieldy initiative to be placed on the ballot for election on nov. 6 , 1990 .
be that also the day of the gubernatorial election .
all the hot issues that the wealthy hollywood weepers who money donate set off to include to have been crafted seem the initiative .
and mr. van de kamp to get around campaign spending limits allow it .
the legal maximum for his campaign can spend he ; is all the spending for the van de kamp initiative ( on which there is no limits ) gravy .
the big green , is being labeled this initiative but the big greenback maybe should be called it .
( the initiative fundraising game is playing too , the republican candidate , sen. pete wilson , his own crime initiative sponsoring ) .
while is it possible that unconstitutional , will be ruled the big green initiative is it of course conceivable that in modern california could slide through it .
is this the state that the prop. 65 anti-toxic initiative recently passed .
if law , ever do become this new proposal will benefit directly the green lobby .
a free floating state environmental officer companies or government agencies that things do n't like he do to sue create the initiative .
as much money to spend on litigation no longer would have the nrdc and such groups mean that ; the cost would bear taxpayers .
that is the environment such a mom and apple-pie issue among certain segments of california 's population now that can pass almost any collection of anti-scientific , anti-pocketbook nonsense under its rubric may be hoping mr. van de kamp and his allies .
of course is the state 's liberals not yet a nation unto themselves .
for example , that do n't want he to be the president who control of interstate commerce lost to an attorney general from california may decide george bush , .
and that significant costs would impose the initiative on the state 's less affluent citizens in the form of higher food prices and lost jobs to point out may yet start some other segments of california 's political and media culture .
itself define california for the future either as a state still tethered to economic and scientific reality , or as one being led it to take to wherever want its la-la activists will help this grandiose initiative .
first , there was a death watch .
spurred by waves of large-scale buying in blue-chip stocks , rallied the dow jones industrial average yesterday and about a half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , erased 88.12 gaining to 2657.38 .
was it the fourth-biggest advance for the average of 30 blue chips , on frenetic new york stock exchange volume of 416,290,000 shares -- the highest since the days after the 1987 crash .
while investors who would occur a 1987-style crash yesterday , feared cheered the advance was it strictly a big-stock rally fed by huge buying by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
a troubling sign : advancers , outnumbered 975 to 749 , declining stocks on the big board and aftershocks of friday 's late big board plunge suffered the over-the-counter market that many smaller stocks include .
closed down 6.31 to 460.98 the nasdaq otc index .
in a divergence in two of the market 's most important indicators , 102.06 meanwhile , tumbled the dow industrials ' sister average , the 20-stock dow jones transportation average , to 1304.23 -- its second-worst decline next to the 164.78-point fall during the 1987 crash .
plunged transports on takeover disappointments in two airline stocks , ual and amr , which each more than 20 % fell when reopened they for trading yesterday after being suspended friday afternoon .
56 7/8 fell ual , the takeover stock at the center of friday 's 190.58-point market plunge , to 222 7/8 on nearly 2.3 million shares .
overall , `` is this a pleasant rally but be it very selective , '' said arthur cashin jr. , a veteran painewebber inc. trader at the big board .
`` a little was concerned everyone about the general narrowness of the rally and failure of the otc market to get into plus territory .
be it just a strange feeling .
the place dixie whistling left anyone do n't think i '' .
credence , gave at least for now , the rally to the pre-trading declaration of big board chairman john j. phelan jr. that was friday 's market debacle `` an abnormal condition , and not a disaster '' .
but to traders , looked it like disaster on the 9:30 a.m. opening bell .
opened down 1.64 the dow jones industrial average shortly after 9:30 .
at 9:45 , opened down 2 3/4 to 117 procter & gamble -- one of the most important dow bellwethers of late -- .
dropped the dow to a quick 27-point loss , and to many traders looked it as if was headed stocks for yet another big tumble .
opened more stocks over the ensuing half hour , as buy orders from major brokerage firms the selling flood to match to find groped the 49 big board specialist firms in charge of the market orderly keeping .
matters worse , to make stocks hammering into steeper losses then , kicked in , computerized sell programs .
there was heavy stock-index arbitrage , as big baskets of stock sold traders and stock-index futures bought to profit from the price discrepancies between the two markets .
was this a hangover from friday , when had closed standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures at a sharp discount to stocks .
any hopes that would hold off some of the big program trading firms until stabilized the market dashed the onslaught of the program selling .
did n't they .
its slide , accelerated the dow 63.52 losing in the first 40 minutes of trading .
with program traders seemingly in charge , backed away buyers from the market and fall stocks watched .
at 10:15 to rebound , then suddenly started the dow and when shot upward it did so even faster than the early-morning fall it .
and this time , was it n't just the program traders who were responsible .
stocks had pushed all the selling to such cheap values that stocks buying heavily started big investment banks and major money management firms .
was the program traders in there , too , of course .
but according to one trader , `` as dominant on the upside as on the downside did n't look the programmers because there was also a lot of bargain-hunting by institutions -lcb- -rcb- '' .
`` our orders to double yesterday morning was the first thing did we '' said roland m. machold , director of the new jersey division of investment , which $ 29 billion in investments , oversee .
`` with the market down like this , another $ 50 million 'll probably take we and it put in the market '' .
traders ' eyes caught trading in walt disney co. particularly .
according to big board officials , one of the biggest sell-order imbalances had disney on friday ; was it one of the seven stocks that trading could n't finish that day .
opened late down 8 1/2 the stock at 114 1/2 , .
but then shot upward 7 1/2 it as stepped in goldman , sachs & co. and bought , said traders .
`` would be surprised i if 4 % of the opening volume represented goldman '' however , said disney specialist robert fagenson : .
around wall street , that the market could at least play they yesterday , in contrast to friday 's gridlock was relieved trading desks .
at donaldson , lufkin & jenrette inc. , `` was the opening constructive think i said head equity trader dudley eppel : .
was it orderly .
some orders put together we .
not like friday the market where just took apart they -lcb- -rcb- . ''
still , had n't yet crossed the market into positive territory , and was traders glum .
but in another dramatic burst , tacked the dow on 42 points in five minutes , and at 10:25 a gain of 5.74 showed the index .
on the big board floor and on trading desks , their approval yelped traders .
`` you , healthy act this market tell i '' grinned griffith peck , a trader in shearson lehman hutton inc. 's otc department : .
around him , a burst of energy to get seemed scores of traders ; bottles of perrier water broke out their boss them to cool off .
among big board specialists , `` your offers pull '' was the cry -- that higher prices to get for their shares soon expected specialists meaning .
`` was it bedlam on the upside , '' said one big board specialist .
but money was making not everybody .
was the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , heavy after was halted the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options friday .
bullish positions had many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract friday , and when came the shutdown was frozen they with huge losses .
over the weekend , the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning told clearing firms .
`` was absolutely killed they , slaughtered , '' said one chicago-based options trader .
that yesterday 's big rally did n't lead the closely watched major market index , the dow industrials , mimic whose 20 stocks said some traders .
`` that a savior to go into the major market index , $ 2 million spend and started the program rally get then needed we is `` the difference between today and two years ago -- `` terrible tuesday , '' oct. 20 , 1987 -- '' said james gallagher , a partner at specialist fowler & rosenau , , .
this time -lcb- -rcb- saw institutions coming the programs and backed away and backed away .
when was the market at a technical level to buy , then came in they with a vengeance '' .
however , according to one analyst , just before the turnaround was the timing of major market index futures buying similar to that of terrible tuesday .
`` the stock market was pulling higher , futures '' said donald selkin , head of stock-index futures research at prudential-bache securities inc .
although struggled the big board 's specialist firms through another highly volatile trading session , yesterday was their performance better than during friday 's late-afternoon chaos , according to traders and brokers who work with them .
was criticized specialists for their inability orderly markets to maintain during the friday plunge .
but yesterday , even with halts in such major blue-chip stocks as merck , `` the halts expected we ( ) and was it n't too bad , '' said donaldson 's mr. eppel , who had been critical of the specialists ' performance on friday .
according to a big board official , while opened late , many stocks there was subsequent trading halts in only three issues -- amr , merck and valero energy .
is merck one of the most important stocks in the major market index .
have been spared no sector of the market during the past two days ' gyrations .
from the dow industrials ' high on oct. 9 through friday 's plunge , yet have been turned in relatively good performances by real-estate , utilities , precious metals and life insurance stocks .
and yesterday , was the top performing industry group oil field equipment issues .
for example , 3 1/4 jumped halliburton to 38 , 2 1/2 rose schlumberger to 43 1/4 and 1 1/8 rose baker hughes to 22 .
because of the ual and amr tumbles , was airlines the weakest sector of the market yesterday .
was philip morris the big board 's most active issue , 2 1/4 rising to 43 1/4 on nearly eight million shares .
among other major issues , closed up 2 coca-cola co. at 66 3/4 on 1.7 million shares and 3 1/4 rose american telephone & telegraph to 43 on nearly 7.8 million shares .
finished up 1 , shares of international business machines , which earnings reported yesterday , at 103 , after slipping below 100 during friday 's session for the first time in five years .
rose shares of three brokerage firms after earnings reported they .
1 3/4 added merrill lynch to 28 , 3/4 rose painewebber to 18 1/2 and 3/8 rose bear stearns to 14 1/4 .
4 climbed federal national mortgage association , a recently hot stock , to 124 on nearly 1.6 million shares .
at a news conference after the close of trading yesterday , the performance of their computers and personnel praised the big board 's mr. phelan and other exchange officials .
that was program trading strategies n't responsible for friday 's decline triggering despite a jump in the use of the computer-driven strategies in recent months said mr. phelan .
were some 24 million of the more than 100 million shares traded in the final 90 minutes of friday 's session , when was concentrated the plunge in stock prices , program-related , said he .
10 % of the exchange 's volume make up program trades on an average day , but despite the increase friday , was it `` certainly not something the market decline , precipitated would say you '' said mr. phelan .
relief that rebounded the market yesterday expressed mr. phelan .
`` every time this kind of reaction , get we everybody nervous , including me , to make obviously , be going it '' said he .
that conversations with wall street firms had exchange officials throughout the weekend and that `` behaved very , very responsibly all the participants today '' said he .
institutional investors in the otc market , who were heavy buyers of the nasdaq 's biggest technology issues yesterday amid a flood of selling by other investors meanwhile , praised peter dapuzzo , shearson 's head of retail equity trading , .
`` ca n't be criticized the institutions for their behavior , '' said mr. dapuzzo in an interview .
`` was it the opposite of what happened on oct. 19 .
their judgment used they .
which the market orderly kept instead , bought they on weakness and sold into the strength , .
maybe learned they from experience '' .
was the performance of specialists during friday 's plunge admirable , because out of 1,640 big board common stocks traded during the day were closed only seven and were n't reopened before the close said mr. phelan .
`` an excellent job , did they '' said mr. phelan of the specialists .
on friday had complained wall street traders about the trading suspensions .
contributed james a. white and sonja steptoe to this article .
its ideological soulmates jeremy rifkin and the christic institute joined west germany 's green party in the legal battle the atlantis shuttle and its plutonium-powered galileo probe to jupiter to ground .
a washington federal appeals court today 's scheduled liftoff to block long enough for the world court `` a permanent cancellation of the $ 1.5 billion flight to order '' to ask them wanted the anti-defense greens .
yesterday to comply , refused a three-judge appeals panel though that was this a `` frivolous '' case to deny went liberal judge pat wald out of her way .
of course was it .
should now sue nasa for fines against all three politico-plaintiffs , foreign and domestic , for this mischievous case bringing .
a permanent smoking ban on all domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on all flights of six hours or less to alaska and hawaii approved a house-senate conference .
all but a small percentage of domestic air traffic , would cover the restrictions and a major expansion of the current smoking ban on flights of two hours or less represent .
to be largely a face-saving concession for the traditionally powerful tobacco industry , which increasingly isolated itself have found in the face of public pressure in recent years appear the exemption allowed on longer flights to alaska and hawaii .
by a 6-4 margin , a senate provision all domestic flights covering initially rejected house negotiators last night .
but was soon agreed the six-hour compromise to in subsequent discussions .
as a practical matter , would be covered flights from the west coast to hawaii as is they under the time limit , but longer routes beginning , for example , in chicago or on the east coast would exempt the language .
within the senate , aggressive support from sen. frank lautenberg ( d. , n.j. ) , who his position as a senate appropriations subcommittee chairman have used votes for the initiative to garner have had the ban .
is attached the measure to the more than $ 26 billion fiscal 1990 transportation bill within mr. lautenberg 's jurisdiction , and is laced the final compromise with more than $ 205 million in road projects earmarked by members as well as funds sought by major airports , including denver .
from the outset , the tobacco industry has been uncertain as to to follow what strategy .
but support retain the industry in the house leadership through the influence of grower states , such as north carolina .
a political debt owe majority whip william gray to southern agriculture lawmakers for his rise in the house , and his position in the conference used the philadelphia democrat the exemption to salvage from a total ban .
although the most public interest , have attracted the smoking provision was the underlying bill the subject of behind-the-scenes lobbying because of its impact on air transportation and the more mundane , but politically important , projects of members .
in a stark lesson in the power of the appropriations committees , a handful of projects backed by lawmakers in florida , illinois and pennsylvania who had voted against the panel leadership on the house floor deliberately killed the house .
`` can vote anybody as want they , '' said rep. william lehman ( d. , fla. ) , head of the house conferees .
within the federal aviation administration , spending for facilities and equipment to increase by more than 20 % from last year , promise the final bill and would rise total operations to $ 3.84 billion -- a 12 % boost .
$ 40 million for denver 's ambitious new airport , include the facilities account and shifting alliances between urban lawmakers established airports in philadelphia and michigan and the major carriers to denver , united and continental representing created the competition for these funds .
leery of the costs -- and , say critics , competition -- leverage over the city of denver to gain have sought the airlines .
was texas air corp. , which continental , own and the air transport association prominent in the lobbying .
conditions that funds for the project would have delayed until had agreed denver and the airlines to leases for 50 % of the gates to impose sought the industry .
but was rejected this in favor of much looser language the transportation department directing the costs of the first phase , about $ 2 billion to cost expected to review .
though smaller in total dollars , an estimated $ 30.6 million in controversial subsidies to carriers rural or isolated airports serving to preserve agreed the conference .
is the sum more than double what had approved the house for the program , but would be cut the list of qualified airports by 22 under new distance requirements and limits on the level of subsidy .
six airports previously cut congress this year .
many of the most excessive cases more than $ 200 where have been paying the government for each passenger in subsidies to eliminate is the impact of the changes .
among rail and highway accounts , $ 615 million for amtrak , including $ 85 million for capital improvements provide the agreement .
and would be effectively frozen federal-formula grants for mass transit at $ 1.625 billion , or $ 20 million more than last fiscal year .
several blockbuster movie hits including `` batman , '' enjoying earnings for the first quarter ended aug. 31 of $ 5.8 million , or 50 cents a share , compared with a year-earlier loss reported los angeles-based guber-peters entertainment co. .
its top executives , peter guber and jon peters , to free from an exclusive agreement with time warner inc. 's warner communications inc. is seeking sony corp. , which the movie-production company , to acquire has offered so columbia pictures entertainment inc can run they .
columbia to acquire for $ 3.4 billion , or $ 27 a share two weeks ago agreed sony .
sony and guber-peters sued warner late last week ; warner charging with to interfere in sony 's acquisition of the two companies attempting have countersued sony and guber-peters , .
compared guber-peters 's net income in the latest quarter with a net loss of $ 6.9 million , or 62 cents a share , in the year-earlier period .
138 % , rose revenue to $ 10.9 million from $ 4.6 million , the success of its movies `` gorillas in the mist '' and `` rainman , '' as well as the box-office smash `` batman reflecting said the company .
its stake in aristech chemical corp. boosted it to 8.36 % of the the common shares outstanding said a group including jon m. huntsman of salt lake city , .
as previously reported , that aristech acquire banstar corp. , an affiliate of huntsman holdings , in a friendly transaction for $ 25-a-share in cash , or $ 817.5 million proposed huntsman holdings corp. , owned by jon m. huntsman and other members of his family , .
in a filing with the securities and exchange commission , 2,720,675 aristech common shares , including 306,000 shares bought from aug. 21 to oct. 13 for $ 20 to $ 20.875 per share control it said the huntsman group .
comment declined officials at aristech , based in pittsburgh , .
congress has been critical of the bush administration for enough aid not sending to poland , so ready its own version of a care package to send is getting it .
last month , a delegation of congressional staffers to send to poland its legislature , the sejm , to assist in democratic procedures voted the senate .
this effort `` the first gift of democracy . '' call senator pete domenici
it to view as a trojan horse might do better the poles .
is it the vast shadow government of 15,000 congressional staffers such legislative atrocities as the 1,376 page , 13-pound reconciliation bill that to be the budget of the united states claimed create helps that .
maybe after their work explain the staffers to the poles , they 'd be willing to come back and the same do for the american people .
that widened its pretax loss for the first six months to 10.6 million irish punts ( $ 14.9 million ) from 5.8 million irish punts a year earlier reported waterford wedgwood plc , a financially troubled irish maker of fine crystal and wedgwood china , .
was the results for the half worse than market expectations , which an interim loss of around 10 million irish punts suggested .
in a sharply weaker london market yesterday , was waterford shares down 15 pence at 50 pence ( 79 cents ) .
a loss after taxation and minority interests of 14 million irish punts , compared with a loss of 9.3 million irish punts for the year-earlier period reported the company .
there was n't any extraordinary items .
27 % rose sales for the total group to 168.1 million irish punts compared with 132.6 million irish punts a year ago .
have decided waterford against an interim dividend paying .
the company 's long-term prospects to enhance is expected the appointment of a new management team and the signing of a comprehensive labor agreement said waterford .
was reversed the sudden `` flight to quality '' that friday 's explosive bond-market rally triggered yesterday in a `` flight from quality '' rout .
a rebound in the stock market and profit-taking reflected the setback , in which plummeted treasury bond prices , .
`` was it a pretty wild day .
was closely tied our markets to the stock market , '' said joel kazis , manager of trading at smith barney , harris upham & co .
`` was no longer needed friday 's flight to quality once its legs , found the stock market '' said he .
a further drop in stock prices had expected some fixed-income investors after the nearly 200-point drop in the dow jones industrial average on friday .
but to climb instead , when began stocks declined prices of treasury bonds .
contributing was dispatches by several investment firms clients their stock holdings to boost and the size of their cash or bond portfolios reduce advising to the selling pressure .
among the firms was merrill lynch & co. and dean witter reynolds inc .
evidence that credit conditions eased slightly the federal reserve by the federal funds rate as low as 8 1/2 % to drift allowing to ignore seemed the bond market .
slid down from its perceived target level of about 9 % the closely watched rate on federal funds , or overnight loans between banks , to about 8 3/4 % last week , .
an early signal of changes in fed policy is considered the rate .
much enthusiasm did n't stir yesterday 's modest easing because had been widely expected it said traders .
in fact , that started the latest easing last week contend some economists .
that was disappointed some investors because a more aggressive easing had expected they note others .
about 1 3/4 points lower , or down about $ 17.50 for each $ 1,000 face amount ended the treasury 's benchmark 30-year bond , .
was the reversal even more evident among shorter-term treasury securities .
after as much as 0.70 percentage point plummeted treasury bill rates on friday , three-fourths of that amount gave back they yesterday .
for example , was quoted the bond-equivalent yield on three-month treasury bills , late yesterday at 7.72 % , compared with 7.16 % friday .
also fell investment-grade corporate bonds , mortgage-backed securities and municipal bonds .
but small gains to post after a volatile trading session rebounded prices of junk bonds , which was battered friday in near standstill trading , .
as much as four points lower opened junk bonds but a modest comeback staged as firmed stock prices .
was helped the high-yield market by active institutional buying said some traders .
in particular , said they , a market in junk issues making early in the session severely depressed levels when hit prices began firms such as first boston corp. and drexel burnham lambert inc. .
`` the sentiment for junk bonds , improved the willingness of securities companies markets to make for high-yield issues think i '' said john lonski , an economist at moody 's investors service inc .
was u.s. treasury bonds higher in overnight trading in japan , which opened at about 7:30 p.m. edt .
for example one point rose the benchmark 30-year bond , in early japanese trading in reaction to a quick 600-point drop in the tokyo stock market .
but as rebounded japanese stocks , retreated treasurys and ended just modestly higher .
was fully staffed many u.s. trading operations , a watchful eye to keep on japanese trading as an indication of where would begin u.s. trading , wanting during the tokyo trading session .
`` was most of the action during the night session , '' said michael moore , trading manager at continental bank .
was trading in tokyo `` very active '' but highly volatile said jay goldinger , who often trades overnight for capital insight inc. , beverly hills , calif. , .
`` went down 3/4 point we in 10 minutes right before lunch , after lunch then went up 3/4 point we in 12 minutes , '' said he .
in tokyo , is halted trading during lunchtime .
to be a bad bellwether for u.s. trading turned out tokyo 's market .
when opened here , the market fell bonds prices as strength regained the stock market .
was the bond market 's focus on stock activity so strong yesterday that today 's slate of economic data , which the government 's report on august u.s. merchandise trade and september industrial production include overshadowed it .
0.2 % , to have declined is expected industrial production according to a consensus of economists surveyed by dow jones capital markets report .
to have widened to $ 9.1 billion from $ 7.58 billion in july is expected the august trade deficit .
said one new york trader , is a widening of that magnitude , `` not a favorable number ... .
damage to us could do it '' .
to weigh heavily on the market today a $ 2.3 billion offering of one-year , three-year , five-year and 10-year maturities when price the federal home loan bank meanwhile , is expected agency supply .
tomorrow , details of its first bond issue , which between $ 4 billion and $ 6 billion to total and a maturity greater than 20 years carry is expected will provide the resolution funding corp. .
is resolution funding a division of resolution trust corp. , the new federal agency the nation 's troubled thrifts to bail out created .
and this week a $ 3 billion offering , its first public debt borrowing in 15 years to price plan the tennessee valley authority .
`` there 's lots of supply , '' said the new york trader .
`` coming a couple or three tough weeks have we '' .
tumbled prices of treasury bonds in moderate to active trading .
was quoted late the benchmark 30-year treasury bond at a price of 101 19/32 , compared with a closing price of 103 12/32 friday .
rose the yield on the benchmark issue to 7.97 % from 7.82 % .
was quoted late the latest 10-year notes at 100 3/32 for a yield of 7.97 % , compared with 101 9/32 7.84 % to yield .
fell short-term interest rates yesterday at the government 's weekly treasury bill auction .
was the average discount rate on new three-month treasury bills 7.37 % , the lowest since the average of 7.36 % at the auction on oct. 17 , 1988 .
was the average discount rate 7.42 % on new six-month bills , the lowest since the average of 7.35 % at the auction on july 31 , 1989 .
is determined rates by the difference between the purchase price and face value .
the investor 's return thus , narrow higher bidding while it widen lower bidding .
is calculated the percentage rates on a 360-day year , while is based the coupon-equivalent yield on a 365-day year .
is dated both issues oct. 19 .
mature the 13-week bills jan. 18 , 1990 , and mature the 26-week bills april 19 , 1990 .
one to 1 1/2 point lower ended investment-grade corporate bonds .
there was no new issues .
surged foreign bonds as weakened the dollar against most major currencies .
among benchmark issues : -- ended up 1.17 point japan 's no. 111 4.6 % bond due 1998 on brokers screens at 96.15 , .
was the yield 5.245 % .
-- 6.99 % to yield ended up 0.91 point west germany 's 6 3/4 % issue due june 1999 at 98.30 , .
-- 10.12 % , to yield ended 1 1/8 higher britain 's 11 3/4 % bond due 2003/2007 at 111 19/32 while 21/32 rose the 11 3/4 % notes due 1991 to 98 26/32 12.74 % to yield .
most of friday 's gains gave up mortgage securities as ended 24/32 to 30/32 point lower active issues .
said dealers was morning activity hectic as dropped prices in response to gains in the stock market and losses in treasury securities , but slowed trading to moderate levels in the afternoon .
was quoted down 30/32 from friday government national mortgage association 9 % securities for november delivery late yesterday at 98 4/32 , ; was 9 1/2 % securities down 27/32 at 100 5/32 ; and was 10 % securities at 102 2/32 , off 24/32 .
was federal home loan mortgage corp. 9 % securities at 97 1/4 , down 3/4 .
on friday , gained as much as 1 5/32 mortgage issues .
late yesterday 9.39 % was yielding ginnie mae 9 % securities to a 12-year average life assumption , as 0.01 percentage point narrowed the spread above the treasury 10-year note to 1.42 .
there was some busy dealings in freddie mac and federal national mortgage association securities because collateral for new deals to gather moved underwriters from last week 's heavy slate of real estate mortgage investment conduit issues said traders .
the remic-related purchases offsetting was continued heavy sales by mortgage originators , which increased amounts of fixed-rate mortgage-backed issues with lower rates is producing .
there was no new-issue activity in the derivative market .
municipal bonds drove 1/4 to 3/4 point lower rebounding stocks and weaker treasury prices in late dealings .
municipal dollar bonds close to where was they before a capital markets rally prompted the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average friday left the session losses .
was trading hectic during the morning , with whether would continue equities friday 's free fall or stabilize after a brief spot of weakness to gauge trying players .
the session flat to a touch higher started tax-exempts on anticipation of further stock market erosion , but rapidly turned south bond prices as more clear that was a repeat of the october 1987 crash n't at hand became it .
municipal trading dominated professionals throughout the session .
the sidelines to be hugging until is wrung out a measure of volatility of the market seemed retail investors said traders .
was new jersey turnpike authority 's 7.20 % issue of 2018 off 3/4 at 98 1/2 bid , 7.32 % , yielding up 0.07 percentage point from late friday .
was florida board of education 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2023 5/8 point weaker at 99 1/2 bid .
was the 7 1/8 % issue of triborough bridge and tunnel authority of new york , due 2019 , off 5/8 at 98 1/8 bid .
and was fairfax county , va. , water authority 's 7 1/4 % issue of 2027 down 3/4 at 99 7/8 bid .
was up about 0.05 percentage point serial bond yields .
`` strategic alternatives , '' for its business men 's assurance co. unit , be weighing it and possible buyers of the life and health insurance operation is contacting said bma corp. , kansas city , mo. , .
said a bma spokesman health insurance `` a significant challenge , '' have made `` runaway medical costs '' and also have been pinched margins by changes in the mix of life-insurance products now demand consumers .
about $ 288 million of the company 's $ 488 million in 1988 revenue , represented the business men 's assurance unit and was the unit 's operating income about $ 10 million , said the spokesman .
possible buyers for the unit to contact have been authorized bma 's investment banker , alex . brown & sons inc. , .
its stake in adt ltd. of bermuda raised it to 29.4 % from 28 % said laidlaw transportation ltd. .
the price for the additional shares , which were acquired `` over the last couple of weeks . '' said he paid the toronto transportation and waste services concern to disclose declined a spokesman for laidlaw
its stake in adt would n't increase laidlaw because of british takeover regulations that a company more than 30 % acquiring an offer to extend to the rest of the company 's shareholders require beyond 30 % `` without a great deal of thought '' said the spokesman .
trade adt , a security services and auctions company , on london 's stock exchange .
is laidlaw 47%-controlled by canadian pacific ltd. , a montreal transportation , resources and industrial holding concern .
a 23 % unconsolidated surge in pretax profit to 61.41 billion yen ( $ 429 million ) from 50 billion yen ( $ 349.9 million ) posted nintendo co. , a japanese maker of video games , electronic information systems and playing cards , for the fiscal year ended aug. 31 .
40 % surged sales to 250.17 billion yen from 178.61 billion .
11 % rose net income to 29.62 billion yen from 26.68 billion .
without specific product breakdowns , detailing its bullish upsurge in sales -- including advanced computer games and television entertainment systems -- credited nintendo to surging `` leisure-oriented '' sales in foreign markets .
for instance , 184.74 billion yen totaled up from 106.06 billion in the previous fiscal year export sales for leisure items alone , in the 12 months , .
however , was domestic leisure sales , lower .
merrill lynch capital markets retained it its hertz equipment rental corp. unit to sell said hertz corp. of park ridge , n.j. , .
`` there is no pressing need the unit , to sell but it is doing we so can concentrate we on our core business , automobiles renting in the u.s. and abroad , '' said william slider , hertz 's executive vice president .
`` to sell at the right price is only going we '' .
operating profit before depreciation of $ 90 million on revenue of $ 150 million in 1988 had hertz equipment .
annual revenue of close to $ 2 billion in 1988 , of which was contributed $ 1.7 billion by its hertz rent a car operations world-wide had the closely held hertz corp. .
is hertz equipment a major supplier of rental equipment in the u.s. , france , spain and the u.k .
commercial and industrial equipment including earth-moving , aerial , compaction and electrical equipment , compressors , cranes , forklifts and trucks supply it .
a net loss of $ 2.4 million for the fiscal third quarter ended aug. 31 reported interspec inc. .
resulted the loss from startup and introduction costs related to a new medical ultrasound equipment system said it .
in the year-earlier quarter , net income of $ 955,000 , or 15 cents a share reported the company .
a nine-month net loss of $ 2.43 million compared with net income of $ 2.71 million , or 44 cents a share , for the nine-month period a year earlier reported the manufacturer of ultrasound diagnostic systems , based in ambler , pa. , .
in over-the-counter trading , 37.5 cents fell interspec to $ 4.25 .
third-quarter net of about $ 34 million , or $ 1.50 a share , down from $ 38.4 million , or $ 1.70 a share , a year earlier , to report expect allegheny ludlum corp. institutional investors in new york told richard p. simmons , chairman and chief executive officer , .
fell sales for the pittsburgh-based producer of specialty steels and other materials to about $ 265 million in the third quarter from $ 320.5 million a year earlier , said he .
profit for the nine months of $ 4.65 a share , `` almost equal to the full-year 1988 earnings of $ 108.6 million , or $ 4.81 a share '' indicate the third-quarter estimate said he .
continued improvements in productivity and operating margins reflect the third-quarter results said mr. simmons .
will rise capital spending next year to about $ 45 million from about $ 35 million this year said he .
the expiration date of its $ 7-a-share tender offer for international banknote co. again extended it to nov. 15 said u.s. banknote co. .
said u.s. banknote is it in negotiations `` certain facilities , '' which did n't name it , to sell to a third party , and the extension need it a definitive agreement on the sale to reach to try .
if completed , antitrust issues raised by the u.s. justice department about u.s. banknote 's offer international banknote to buy apparently would satisfy the sale , believe it said u.s. banknote .
`` there can be no assurance '' would be concluded a sale agreement said u.s. banknote .
financing arrangements to complete to be extended further would probably have the tender offer also said it .
the expiration date of its commitment for senior secured financing extended citibank to nov. 15 said u.s. banknote .
have been extended the offer , made june 1 , several times .
the $ 7 a share , or $ 126 million , offered closely held u.s. banknote for as many as 14.9 million shares , or 78.6 % , of international banknote 's shares outstanding .
that as of oct. 13 , had been tendered 16.1 million shares , or about 84.3 % of the fully diluted shares outstanding , said u.s. banknote .
50 % of regatta sport ltd. , a closely held apparel maker , to buy with the assumption of $ 3 million of contingent debt agreed it said gitano group inc. .
under the terms of the contract , the option the remaining 50 % of regatta , a maker of men 's and women 's clothes sold primarily in department stores , to acquire under certain conditions have new york-based gitano .
is now held that 50 % by clifford parker , regatta 's president and chief executive officer , who regatta 's operations to manage under gitano will continue .
in 1989 , sales will have regatta `` in excess of $ 10 million '' and a profit , will show said mr. parker .
its strategy to expand into department stores will enhance the regatta acquisition said gitano , which budget-priced apparel sold mainly through mass merchandisers like k mart and wal-mart , make .
this fall , moderately priced clothes aimed at department stores under the gloria vanderbilt trademark , which recently acquired gitano manufacturing began gitano .
will result the sale of preference units of its newly formed enron ngl partners l.p. master limited partnership subsidiary in an undetermined gain in the fourth quarter said enron corp. , houston , .
in the year-ago quarter , net income of $ 25.2 million , or 34 cents a share , on revenue of about $ 1.46 billion had the natural gas concern .
a $ 2.7 million charge related to the retirement of debt included those results .
in a related move , the number of the partnership 's units will offer it increased it to 6,930,000 from 5,500,000 said enron .
over-allotment provisions include the old and revised numbers both .
will be priced each unit in the $ 19-to-$21 range and about 80 % of the partnership equity will represent said enron .
to be close to $ 200 million is expected net proceeds from the offering .
is goldman , sachs & co. , and drexel burnham lambert inc. lead underwriters .
his unsolicited tender offer of $ 32 a share tender offer , or $ 154.3 million , for di giorgio corp. extended he to nov. 1 said arthur m. goldberg .
that as of the close of business yesterday , had been tendered 560,839 shares said dig acquisition corp. , the new jersey investor 's acquisition vehicle , .
including the stake already held dig , a total of about 25 % of di giorgio 's shares hold dig on a fully diluted basis .
to expire last night at midnight was the offer , which common and preferred stock purchase rights , also include .
is the new expiration date the date on which to expire is dig 's financing commitments , which about $ 240 million , total .
is dig a unit of dig holding corp. , a unit of rose partners l.p .
is mr. goldberg the sole general partner in rose partners .
in august , mr. goldberg 's offer rejected di giorgio , a san francisco food products and building materials marketing and distribution company , as inadequate .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed down $ 1.75 di giorgio at $ 31.50 a share , .
after years of fading into the background , is coming back two-tone photography .
stark black-and-white photos of jeans , shoes and liquor pitching hollywood celebrities feature trendy magazine advertisements .
a rush to black-and-white portrait orders report portrait studios accustomed to shooting only in color .
and is crowded black-and-white photography classes with students .
on seventh avenue , the monochrome look have been advancing designers with clothing collections done entirely in black and white .
and a comeback on videocassette tapes , spurred , in part , by the backlash against colorization of old films is enjoying classic black-and-white movies .
`` is swinging back the pendulum to black and white , '' say richard demoulin , the general manager of eastman kodak co. 's professional photography division .
until two years ago , had been declining steadily sales of black-and-white film since the 1960s .
but last year , buoyed by increased use in advertising and other commercial applications , 5 % , increased sales and at least that much to jump again this year is expected they .
the resurging market , to tap some black-and-white product lines reviving and new ones developing is scrambling photographic companies .
now account at kodak , which the market largely ignored for years , black-and-white film sales for nearly 15 % of the company 's $ 3 billion in film and paper sales annually , up from 10 % three years ago .
t-max 3200 , one of the fastest and most sensitive monochrome films marketing recently began the rochester , n.y. , photographic giant .
aimed at commercial photographers , can be used the film in very low light without quality , sacrificing say donald franz of photofinishing newsletter .
a portion of the $ 2 billion-a-year industry to snare also trying is agfa corp. , a unit of bayer ag .
olympic gold medalist florence griffith-joyner a new line of black-and-white paper that 's geared to consumers and will compete directly with kodak 's papers to endorse recently signed agfa .
slated for market by the end of the year , `` could have been introduced a long time ago the paper but was n't there then , the market '' say an agfa spokesman .
is the biggest beneficiary of the black-and-white revival likely to be international paper co. 's ilford division , known in the industry for its premium products .
this year growth in the overall market , is outpacing sales of ilford 's four varieties of black-and-white film although wo n't say the company by exactly how much .
`` last the trend , hope we '' say laurie dicara , ilford 's marketing communications director .
eye-catching and exotic seem for baby boomers who being photographed in color , grew up black and white .
`` an archival , almost nostalgic quality to it , have it '' say owen b. butler , the chairman of the applied photography department at rochester institute of technology .
`` can shift you out of reality with black and white , '' add he .
such features have been especially attractive to professional photographers and marketing executives , who their use of black and white in advertising have been steadily increasing .
gap inc. , black-and-white shots of hollywood stars , artists and other well-known personalities the retailer 's jeans and t-shirts modeling feature whose latest ad campaign consider .
black and white its ads to distinguish from the color spreads of competitors did n't intentionally choose gap say richard crisman , the account manager for the campaign , .
`` the individual , not the environment , to highlight wanted we '' say he , `` and '' you that to do better than color allow black and white .
a cleo award as this year 's best ad by a specialty retailer won the campaign .
the switch is making even food products and automobiles , which have long depended on color , .
`` a stronger statement , will convey black and white feel companies '' say marc l. hauser , a chicago photographer who is working on a black-and-white print ad for stouffer food corp. 's lean cuisine .
american express co. and epson america inc include other companies that two-tone ads is currently using .
have also latched portrait studios onto the trend .
black and white , using `` look housewives like stars , can make we '' say john perrin .
its business doubled his on-broadway photography studio in portland , ore. , last year and , say he , solid is booked for the next five .
a color portrait spurned she for black and white because `` be it more dramatic say one customer , dayna brunsdon , .
it show i to my friends , and wow say they all ` ' .
is it n't ordinary like color . ''
black-and-white film still , is n't plunking most consumers into their cameras family snapshots to take .
that the film develop anymore few drugstores is one big obstacle .
typically , must be mailed it to a handful of processors and to be processed and returned may take a week or more .
a little less than color film , cost black-and-white film consumers and the same cost processing .
but for photofinishers , is developing costs for black-and-white film higher .
that problem to tackle is starting some companies .
for example , a black-and-white film that can be processed quickly by color labs recently introduced ilford , .
intent on customers , wooing its sponsorship of black-and-white photography classes is also increasing the company .
scores of photography contests at high schools and colleges , similarly , is sponsoring agfa free black-and-white film and paper offering as prizes .
and an instructional video is distributing kodak to processors on its monochrome film how to develop more efficiently .
related products is introducing other companies .
a complete darkroom starter kit targeted at teen-agers who their own black-and-white photographs to process want introduced charles beseler co. , a leading maker of photographic enlargers , last month .
was introduced the kit , which a suggested retail price of $ 250 have and a bestseller , has already become after numerous requests from parents for children 's photography equipment noticed retailers .
`` have waned computers as hobbies , seem it '' say ian brightman , beseler 's chairman and chief executive officer .
but is the resurgence of black and white only a fad believe some industry observers .
the emergence of still electronic photography , turning more newspapers to color on their pages and measurable improvements in the quality of color prints cite they .
`` the same quantum leaps in technological development as color , have n't made black and white '' say mr. butler of the rochester institute .
`` today is the color print far superior to prints of 10 years ago .
but 15 of the greatest photos ever made when selected popular photography , a leading magazine for photographers , for its latest issue photography 's 150th anniversary , celebrating were all black and white .
`` a classic spirit be got it and carry over emotionally , '' say alfred debat of professional photographers of america .
`` be that the appeal .
led improvements in advertising and subscription revenue to a 21 % gain in third-quarter profit to $ 8.8 million , or 31 cents a share , from $ 7.2 million , or 25 cents a share said mcclatchy newspapers inc. .
more than 7 % rose sales to $ 94.9 million from $ 88.3 million .
improved performance also attributed the sacramento , calif. , company to a lower effective tax rate and higher interest income .
for the nine months , almost a 23 % increase in profit to $ 23.6 million , or 83 cents a share , from $ 19.2 million , or 68 cents a share had the newspaper chain .
almost 7 % grew sales to $ 279.1 million from $ 261.3 million .
the sacramento ( calif . ) bee and tacoma ( wash . ) news tribune , and other papers in western states publish mcclatchy .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , closed down 25 cents the company at $ 25.25 a share , .
an offer gatoil suisse s.a to buy submitted agip s.p . a. and societe national elf aquitaine , the state oil companies of italy and france , respectively , .
was n't disclosed the price .
that the offer , submitted last friday , along with two other offers , also submitted last week was examining the swiss oil concern said a spokesman for gatoil .
was those two offers private and the bidding companies to identify refused the spokesman .
that is expected at least two more offers from other companies within two weeks further said the spokesman .
an oil refinery in switzerland with a capacity of 70,000 barrels a day , own gatoil suisse along with a network of gasoline retailing outlets .
while new fears about the economy 's prospects , prompted friday 's plunging stock market point a little-known indicator that the economy 's ups and downs have faithfully foreshadowed by exceptionally long lead times to a sustained rise in overall business activity .
a record high of 223.0 reached the barometer , developed here , by analysts at columbia university 's center for international business cycle research in august , the latest month available , and that have moved even higher it since then estimate the columbia researchers .
was up from 222.3 in july and 215.3 as recently as march the latest reading of 223.0 .
the fifth straight monthly gain for the indicator , which the 1967 average use as a base of 100 marked the august rise .
in contrast , while up in august , have fallen repeatedly the commerce department 's widely followed index of leading indicators , since a high reaching early this year .
some forecasters the start of a new recession to anticipate perhaps before year 's end have prompted its ragged behavior through much of 1989 .
but `` a recession any time soon highly unlikely , make the far stronger showing of the columbia index '' say geoffrey h. moore , the director of the columbia facility .
a leading authority on the business cycle , also is mr. moore a member of the business cycle dating group , the panel of private economists that decide for the government when begin expansions and recessions and end .
normally convene the group likely only when seem a change in the economy 's general course .
`` is scheduled no meeting because no sign of going off the tracks , show the expansion '' report mr. moore .
based largely on the recent strength in their index , the long leading indicator , called uninterrupted economic growth foresee the columbia analysts through the rest of this year and next year as well .
a 2.6 % rise in 1990 in the gross national product , expect they after adjustment for inflation .
this optimism underlying is the index 's longstanding ability recessions or recoveries , to signal as may be the case , by substantially greater periods than the commerce department 's index of leading indicators .
over the full post-world war ii era , on the average , sustained declines have entered the columbia index , 14 months before the onset of recessions and turned up eight months before recoveries .
is the comparable lead times for the commerce index , the stock market , include whose components far shorter -- 10 months before recessions and only three months before recoveries .
how would have behaved the long leading index before the stock market crash in october that the great depression ushered in , had existed it , in 1929 , also have reconstructed the columbia economists .
a peak reached the indicator in january 1929 and then fell steadily up to and through the crash .
`` was it an entirely different pattern from what 're seeing now , we '' say mr. moore .
in august , was the bond measure at its highest monthly average since early 1987 .
also rose it last friday , while sagged the stock market .
a ratio of prices to unit labor costs in manufacturing industries , the m2 version of the money supply , adjusted for inflation , and the volume of new home-building permits include other components of the long leading indicator .
notably absent from the columbia index is the stock market , which `` is simply no longer such a good indicator of the economy 's long-range prospects , though still is it useful for some short-run twists and turns anticipating '' say mr. moore .
as recently as 1975 , was rated the stock market -- as reflected in the standard & poor 's index of 500 common stocks -- by the national bureau of economic research as the best of the 12 leading indicators that the commerce index then made up .
a mark of 80 out of a possible 100 , was assigned it compared with scores ranging as low as 69 for the other components .
some precursory power , have lost the stock market analysts at the columbia center claim , because of the growing impact of international developments .
`` more sensitive to factors not directly tied to the domestic economy , have become stocks '' the exchange rate for the dollar on currency markets , the foreign-trade balance and inflows of foreign capital citing say mr. moore , .
that the stock market 's relevancy to the economic outlook have diminished the rise of such computer-based practices as program trading also feel he .
birkel g.m.b . h. , a west german pasta maker to acquire agreed it said bsn s.a. , a leading french food group , .
was n't disclosed the value of the acquisition .
is the move in line with bsn 's strategy of its share of the european pasta market gradually building through external growth .
a 15 % interest in birkel , a closely held concern will initially acquire bsn .
an agreement the right all the shares outstanding , to buy giving it have the french group and could be completed this within a few months , said a bsn spokeswoman .
was submitted the takeover for approval by the west german cartel office , said bsn .
is birkel west germany 's second-biggest producer of pasta , with sales of 250 million marks ( $ 133.4 million ) in 1988 .
750 workers have it at three production units in southwest germany , and is that nation 's leading producer of pasta sauces .
bsn 's position in the european pasta market strengthen the acquisition .
currently rank second after barilla group of italy , is whose sales chiefly in the italian market the french group .
its rating on $ 281 million of senior and subordinated debt of this thrift holding company , reduced it to c from ca , only `` negligible principal '' will recover bondholders believe it saying said moody 's investors service inc. .
american continental 's preferred stock rating confirmed it at c said the agency .
is american continental 's thrift unit , los angeles-based lincoln savings & loan association , in receivership and have filed the parent company for protection from creditor lawsuits under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code .
its ratings on the subordinated debt of centrust downgraded moody 's investors service inc. to caa from b-3 .
the ratings for long-term deposits also reduced the rating agency to b-3 from ba-3 and for preferred stock to ca from caa .
was affected about $ 85 million in securities said the rating agency .
was prompted the downgrades , said moody 's , by the continuing turmoil in the junk bond market and the suspension of dividends on centrust 's preferred stock .
if completed , the thrift 's funding and market position could , endanger the proposed sale of 63 centrust branches to great western bank believed it also said moody 's .
a repeat of black monday avoided the stock market as recovered prices from an early slide , spurred by bargain-hunting institutions and program traders .
closed up 88.12 points , the dow jones industrials at 2657.38 , the fourth-biggest gain ever , after being down as much as 63.52 points in the morning .
about half of friday 's 190.58-point plunge , erased the rally but is analysts cautious about the market 's outlook .
also rebounded the dollar , while plummeted bond prices and soared treasury bill rates .
also recovered somewhat , junk bonds though stalled remained trading .
also rose gold .
a 1.8 % plunge on monday following bounced back tokyo stock prices in early trading tuesday .
also moved higher the dollar in tokyo .
his $ 7.54 billion offer for american air , withdrew donald trump the `` recent change in market conditions '' citing .
$ 22.125 , slid amr to $ 76.50 .
financing to get for a lower bid , possibly $ 250 a share also , tried a ual group .
$ 56.875 , fell ual to $ 222.875 .
30 % slightly more than expected tumbled ibm 's earnings in the third quarter , .
a stronger dollar and a delay in a new high-end disk drive shipping partly cited the computer giant .
is analysts downbeat about ibm 's outlook for the next few quarters .
10.4 % to decrease car production in the fourth quarter , with coming virtually all the decline from the big three plan u.s. auto makers .
is output at japanese-owned and managed plants in the u.s. due 42 % to rise .
much leeway in coping with gramm-rudman spending cuts , which effect took yesterday wo n't give he federal agencies said budget director darman .
congress a deficit plan to finish to prod hope darman .
would be restricted the s&l bailout agency by a new bill in capital how raise it .
another possible obstacle sick thrifts to selling would create the ways and means plan .
was struck down a natural gas rule by a federal appeals court .
pipeline firms had prevented the regulation from part of $ 1 billion in costs passing along to customers .
whether a merger that regulatory approval have won but anticompetitive been ruled in a private suit may dismantle a federal court to decide agreed the supreme court .
37 % slid merrill lynch 's profit in the third quarter .
a 7.5 % gain , posted bear stearns while a decline due to a year-ago gain had painewebber .
to return to the name manpower and a big write-off take plan blue arrow of britain .
its dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market solidify the firm may help the moves .
a $ 1.82 billion loss for the third quarter , posted j.p. morgan a big addition to loan-loss reserves reflecting .
more than doubled ncnb 's profit .
pace membership warehouse to acquire for $ 322 million , its presence in the growing wholesale-store business expanding agreed k mart .
is the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below a guide to general levels but actual transactions do n't always represent .
traded reserves among commercial banks for overnight use in amounts of $ 1 million or more .
is the minimum unit $ 100,000 .
is these rate indications n't directly comparable ; vary widely lending practices by location .
an agreement with alliant computer systems corp. software standards to develop for intel 's i860 microprocessor reached it said intel corp. .
is the i860 , introduced earlier this year , intel 's entry in the crowded market for reduced instruction set computing , or risc , computers .
is intel , based in santa clara , calif. , the market leader for traditional microprocessors with its 8086 family that the heart of ibm-compatible personal computers form .
under the agreement , $ 3 million will invest intel a 4 % stake in alliant , a maker of minisupercomputers for scientists and engineers to acquire .
its parallel-computing technologies will license alliant , based in littleton , mass. , to intel , a way work simultaneously many i860 microprocessors in a single computer on a problem to let providing users .
the microprocessor to use in future products plan it said alliant .
its plans for its current product line upgrading to discuss declined it .
a cotton and gauze products division acquired it from closely held sterile products corp. for $ 8.2 million said omnicare inc. , which its position in the medical and dental markets , to expand intends .
`` substantial sales volume '' to add the division and a positive contribution to our earnings to make in 1990 and beyond expect it said omnicare .
in 1988 $ 3.1 million , or 32 cents a share , earned the cincinnati company on revenue of $ 148.5 million .
operate the division under the trade name acco and the medical and dental markets supply said omnicare .
sales of more than $ 14 million had the business , based in st. louis , in the fiscal year ended march 31 , said omnicare .
a 6.7 % stake in the company have built up shv holdings n.v. of the netherlands said burmah oil plc , a british independent oil and specialty chemicals marketing concern , .
`` a little under 5 % '' of burmah had previously owned shv for about two years said james alexander , a burmah spokesman , .
burmah had n't notified the dutch company of its reason for the stake , increasing said he .
have been pegged shv , which last year its north sea oil and gas operations merged with those of calor group plc , by speculators as a possible suitor for burmah oil in recent weeks .
40 % of calor also own shv .
a 17 % rise in net income to # 43.5 million ( $ 68.3 million ) in the first half reported burmah , which the castrol brand of lubricant oils , own .
a definitive agreement its builders ' hardware group to sell to closely held nalcor inc. of beverly hills , calif signed it said j.p. industries inc. .
was n't disclosed terms , but said a j.p. industries spokesman is the amount will get j.p. industries for the group `` a little better than expected by the marketplace , and $ 25 million to $ 30 million had been expecting the marketplace '' .
consist the group of weslock corp. and jpi modern inc .
a previously announced program itself to divest of its hardware and plumbing supplies operations complete the sale said j.p. industries , which is based in ann arbor , mich. , .
is the company 's remaining business the manufacture and sale of engine and transmissions products for industrial and transportation applications .
a $ 3.1 million provision for doubtful accounts , citing a loss for its fourth quarter ended june 30 posted dallas-based national heritage inc. .
a unit of troubled southmark corp. , a net loss of $ 1.6 million , or nine cents a share , sustained it compared with net income of $ 1.3 million , or eight cents a share , a year earlier said the operator of nursing homes and retirement centers .
13 % rose operating revenue to $ 22.2 million from $ 19.7 million in the year-earlier quarter .
doubt about the collectability of receivables owed to national heritage by some of the real estate partnerships manage it to reflect was created the $ 3.1 million reserve said the company .
was recognized primarily expenses incurred by the previous board and management in the recent contest for control in the first quarter ended sept. 30 also said the company .
12.5 cents fell national heritage stock yesterday to close at $ 1.375 a share in new york stock exchange composite trading .
the creation of a european group its trading interests in the region to bring together announced united biscuits ( holdings ) plc , a british food producer , .
all of united biscuit 's manufacturing and marketing operations in the food sector apart from those based in the u.s. will comprise the new group .
annual sales of more than # 1.5 billion ( $ 2.35 billion ) and trading profit of more than # 160 million ( $ 251 million ) will have the combined group , which businesses such as mcvities biscuits and terry 's confectionery , will include said united biscuits .
`` united biscuits to focus clearly upon opportunities for planned growth during the 1990s , will enable the new structure '' said bob clarke , deputy chairman and group chief executive .
last month , its entire restaurant operations to sell to grand metropolitan plc for # 180 million agreed united biscuits .
trial now is standing an american journalist in namibia .
is this the place that over have been celebrating world opinion in the expectation that an election to hold be going it .
that was the head of the commission charged with the election 's fairness , overseeing bryan o'linn , openly sympathetic to swapo was writing the u.s. journalist 's `` crime '' .
shortly after that , arrested scott stanley and confiscated his passport had mr. o'linn .
is mr. stanley on trial over charges that a proclamation , issued by the south african administrator general earlier this year , which a crime punishable by two years in prison for `` to insult it any person , disparate or belittle '' the election commission made violated he .
do n't bode well the stanley affair for the future of democracy or freedom of anything in namibia the government running when start swapo .
to the extent anything wrong , have done mr. stanley that is he out of step with the consensus of world intellectuals that was the namibian guerrillas above all else the victims of suppression by neighboring south africa may be it .
favorable western media treatment have enjoyed swapo since it the `` sole , authentic representative '' of namibia 's people in ever declared the u.n. general assembly
last year , a peace settlement brokered the u.s. cuba 's `` afrika korps '' to remove from angola and `` free and fair '' elections that south africa 's control of namibia would end hold .
is set the elections for nov. 7 .
in july , namibia visited mr. stanley , editor of american press international , a washington d.c.-based conservative wire service , to report on the u.n.-monitored election campaign .
mr. o'linn , head of a commission charged with electoral intimidation , investigating interviewed he and that was mr. o'linn openly sympathetic to swapo and its leaders indeed had defended in court reported .
after was published mr. stanley 's article in two namibian newspapers , criminal charges had brought mr. o'linn against their editors , publisher and lawyer .
was arrested along with the others mr. stanley and charged when returned he to namibia this month .
mr. stanley 's detention have protested both the state department and the lawyers committee for freedom of the press .
is mr. stanley 's arrest the latest in a series of incidents that namibia 's elections to derail threaten .
voters is intimidating both south african and swapo extremists .
is the u.s. in the habit of peace settlements arranging and its hands then washing over the tragic results .
the chance that record to redress in namibia now have it .
that be released mr. stanley and his fellow defendants and that certain that election complaints from all sides investigate mr. o'linn's commission make the united nation 's monitors should insist state and the human-rights community .
the stability of the stock market generally reflected commodity futures prices following its plunge friday .
yesterday , at first nervousness created the stock market 's influence .
more of an undercurrent than a dominating force later , however , became it as reacted more individual markets to their own factors .
its inverse lockstep with the dollar , continued gold , the traditional haven in times of financial crisis , rising early in the day as fell the currency , and some of its gains then giving up as recovered the dollar .
reacted sharply copper and crude oil to the concern that yesterday a potentially devastating effect on the economy could have a crash .
fell copper and little rebound showed through the day as to be solved appeared one of the major supply problems that prices had been supporting .
declined early , crude oil but as early gains , retained the stock market stronger , ending with a small net loss too , became it , .
was trading in cotton and sugar nervous and small declines showed .
in chicago , rose slightly grain and soybean prices .
however , dropped livestock and meat prices , on concern that consumption of beef and pork would cut a financial crisis .
in commodity markets yesterday : precious metals : was futures prices moderately higher as some of its early gains gave up gold and first falling and then later rising behaved independently , platinum .
performed quietly silver .
$ 4 rose the spot october gold price to $ 367.30 an ounce .
settled the more active december delivery gold with a gain of $ 3.90 an ounce at $ 371.20 , after trading as high as $ 374 .
was december silver up 2.3 cents an ounce at $ 5.163 .
easing early on concern over a possible weaker economy , but recovering later , as strengthened the stock market behaved platinum more like an industrial metal , .
was gold nowhere the spectacular performer was it two years ago on black monday .
for one thing , last friday , closed precious metals markets before went the stock market into its late-in-the-day nose dive , so could n't react it to it .
back on friday , oct. 16 , l987 , declined the stock market during the day , and surged gold prices as fell the stock market .
that day as much as $ 8.70 rose the october 1987 contract to as high as $ 471.60 , and as much as $ 9.60 rose the more deferred positions , due to mature as late as march 1989 , .
on black monday , oct. 19 , 1987 , further gains , tacked on the october contract rising to as high as $ 491.50 for a gain of almost $ 20 on top of the friday advances , before almost $ 10 of that giving up at the close .
was yesterday 's october gain of $ 4 miniscule compared with that .
some good price-supporting technical factors that prices to rise , would have caused with or without the stock market already had the gold market said one analyst , peter cardillo of josephthal & co. , new york , .
`` the rise place to take earlier than would have happened it , was cause what did the stock market '' said mr. cardillo .
there be a good chance that its gains will retain gold and rise further , said he .
a drop in interest rates , which gold would help by the dollar keeping from rising expect he .
according to mr. cardillo , finally , should be reflected the impact of the strong dollar in reduced exports in the august merchandise trade deficit , when is released the figures today .
be would damaging this to the dollar and supportive for gold , said he .
that friday 's 190-point stock market plunge might be a harbinger of things to come for the economy , worried a halt to the recent string of increases in crude oil futures prices called petroleum futures traders .
closed down 30 cents the u.s. benchmark crude , west texas intermediate , at $ 20.59 a barrel for november delivery , .
was crude due for a correction anyhow , following several days of significant gains said some analysts .
but that what spirits in the petroleum pits dampened yesterday is friday 's stock market drop agreed most market observers .
until yesterday , had been headed up futures prices on expectations that to be strong will continue world oil demand .
its production ceiling for the fourth quarter increased the organization of petroleum exporting countries based on projections of robust demand .
so shivers send as well any bearish indicator , such as friday 's precipitous drop in the stock market , through the oil markets .
after reacting early in the trading day to friday 's plummet , indeed , firmed up again futures prices as note took traders of the stock market 's partial recovery yesterday .
fell futures prices and little rebound showed as to be solved appeared one major labor problem that prices had been underpinning .
3.05 cents a pound declined the december contract to $ 1.2745 .
was prices down from the outset of trading on concern that a weakened economy and a consequent reduction in copper use might create a drop in the stock market .
but little help for copper provided the recovery in the stock market as that was about over , a three-month strike at the highland valley mine in british columbia spread word according to an analyst .
is highland valley a large canadian producer and principal supplier to japan , which copper seeking elsewhere as shrank its inventories recently began .
last week that the major hurdle , the contracting out of work by the company had overcome company and union negotiations was reported it .
said the analyst , to be cleaned up now , remain only minor points .
`` for all intents and purposes , to have been achieved , appear an agreement '' said he .
rose copper inventories in new york 's commodity exchange warehouses yesterday by 516 tons , to 10,004 tons .
last week 13,575 tons , declined london metal exchange copper inventories to 89,300 tons .
about as expected , was the lme stocks decline but was n't the comex gain .
however , was brushed aside this by concern over the stock market , said the analyst .
at one point in futures trading , as firmed the stock market , rose the december contract to as high as $ 1.2965 , but was it n't able the gain to sustain .
`` was simply overbought it , '' said he , and prices depress helped selling by funds that computer is guided .
eased futures prices , more in reaction to hurricane jerry than to any influence of the stock market .
ended the december contract with a loss of 0.22 cent a pound , at 74.48 cents .
prices to decline yesterday , caused technical considerations following the hurricane , which was a factor in the market friday , said ernest simon , cotton specialist for prudential-bache securities , new york .
rose sharply prices friday as approached the storm texas and louisiana , which is part of the mississippi delta cotton-growing area .
after the potential effect of the hurricane , absorbing to slip late friday , however , began prices said mr. simon .
continued that selling yesterday and prices under pressure , kept said he .
is being predicted colder weather for the high plains of texas and the northern states of the delta during the coming weekend , said mr. simon .
traders ' attention , have n't yet captured that added he .
declined futures prices .
was the march contract off 0.32 cent a pound at 13.97 cents .
at one point in early trading rose the march price to as high as 14.22 cents when recovered the stock market , but then fell back the price .
said one analyst , that any purchases did n't make india , which around 200,000 tons of sugar to buy in the world market , had been expected was a price-depressing factor , .
200,000 tons recently bought india and more , to buy was expected said the analyst .
that may have pulled back india because of the concern over the stock market thought another analyst .
`` that if there was a severe drop in the stock market and sugar , affected it could buy it at lower prices , may have felt india '' said judith ganes , analyst for shearson lehman hutton , new york .
at any rate , added she , `` the sugar , need india so it to buy will be in sooner or later it '' .
dropped sharply the prices of cattle and hog futures contracts because that friday will linger long enough them their spending at the supermarket , to rein in which demand for beef and pork would hurt to prompt the stock market plunge in the minds of u.s. consumers speculated traders .
its maximum permissible daily limit of 1.5 cents a pound dropped the price of the hog contract for october delivery .
rose slightly the prices of most grain futures contracts yesterday out of relief that signs of recovering was showing the stock market .
earlier in the session , new lows set the prices of several soybean contracts .
began a broad rally futures contracts , buying advantage apparently to take of the price dip when began several major processors .
increased earnings per share contrary to reported analysts ' comments that would be down the publishing company 's earnings would report it for the third quarter , said knight-ridder inc. .
was caused the confusion new york analysts that knight-ridder 's earnings per share for the first nine months of 1989 would `` be behind a little bit '' from like period of when told two weeks ago james batten , knight-ridder 's chairman and chief executive , believed he said a company spokesman
to be up is expected the third-quarter earnings that to report oct. 24 plan the company said the knight-ridder spokesman .
was he `` comfortable '' with revised analysts ' projections that earnings of between 62 cents and 64 cents a share , would report the company compared with the 53 cents a share reported it for the 1988 third quarter said the spokesman .
agreed it with estimates that net income for all of 1989 would be around $ 2.86 a share , compared with $ 2.59 a share a year earlier said knight-ridder .
in new york stock exchange composite trading yesterday , closed down 37.5 cents knight-ridder at $ 51.75 , .
its $ 45-a-share offer for dunkin ' donuts inc. extended it to nov. 1 from yesterday said dd acquisition corp. .
an indicated value of $ 268 million have the offer .
is dd acquisition a partnership of unicorp canada corp. 's kingsbridge capital group unit and cara operations ltd .
as previously reported , under the terms of a confidentiality agreement with dunkin ' donuts , their offer open until nov. 1 , to keep and any additional shares not to acquire except through a tender offer expiring on that date agreed the partners .
that 15 % of the common shares of the doughnut shop chain already own it and that as of the close of business friday had been tendered an additional 11 % to its offer said dd acquisition .
is based dunkin ' donuts in randolph , mass .
is based cara operations , a food services concern , and unicorp , a holding company with interests in oil and natural gas and financial services , in toronto .
a 16 % increase of third-quarter earnings posted golden west financial corp. , riding above the turbulence that most of the thrift industry , have troubled to $ 41.8 millon , or 66 cents a share .
$ 36 million , or 57 cents a share , earned the company in the year-ago quarter .
the high number of loans added to the company 's portfolio over the last 12 months credited herbert m. sandler , chairman and chief executive officer of the oakland , calif. , savings-and-loan holding company , for its earning asset base broadening and profit performance improving .
that new loan originations depressed slackening demand for new mortgages to $ 1 billion , 30 % below the same period last year however , noted the executive .
in savings activity , a steady increase have enjoyed consumer deposits throughout 1989 , and $ 11 billion topped at quarter 's end for the first time in the company 's history said mr. sandler .
amounted deposit growth to $ 393 million , more than double the year-ago figure .
a process environmentally harmful chlorofluorocarbons , or cfcs , that the atmosphere previously entered during in-home repair of refrigerators and freezers to recover have developed it said whirlpool corp. , benton harbor , mich. , .
is the process , which the use of a multilayer plastic bag during repairs the gaseous substance to capture and transport it to a recycling center , involve already in use at a number of its service centers , and will be available to all authorized repair centers by spring said the maker of home appliances .
the cfcs vented earlier repairs out of the home through a hose directly into the atmosphere .
is widely used cfcs as solvents , coolants and fire suppressants .
but have been linked their use to a potentially dangerous depletion of the earth 's ozone layer , and use , or at least emission , of the substance to curtail is seeking a number of companies .
`` this process see we as a small but important step toward eventual elimination of cfc use in appliance manufacture said whirpool , .
a new oil field discovered northeast of its previously discovered intan field in the southeast sumatra area of indonesia it said maxus energy corp. , dallas , .
a production test did n't run it on the three discovery wells drilled it in the field , which is about 1.6 miles from the intan field , because is the wells similar to others drilled at its intan and widuri fields said maxus .
is the reserves in the field about 10 million barrels of oil believe it however , said maxus .
reserves of 50 million barrels have estimated the intan field and reserves of 225 million barrels have estimated the widuri field .
is maxus , an independent oil and gas concern , the operator and a 56 % interest in the new field , northeast intan called own .
is owned other interests by bp petroleum development ( ses ) ltd. , c. itoh energy co. ltd. , deminex sumatra oel g.m.b . h. , hispanoil ( sumatra ) production ltd. , hudbay oil ( indonesia ) ltd. , inpex sumatra co. ltd. , lasmo sumatra ltd. , sunda shell , tcr sumat a.g. and warrior oil co .
is held the production-sharing contract area with pertamina , the indonesian state oil company .
its results is restating it its reported net income for the first nine months of its fiscal year to reduce after tax credits that already had been taken last year took it discovering said environmental systems co. .
its net for the nine months ended july 31 will reduce the restatement to $ 2.5 million , or 17 cents a share , from $ 3.7 million , or 26 cents a share said the little rock , ark. , hazardous-waste services company .
net of $ 2.3 million , or 15 cents a share previously reported the company .
that for financial reporting purposes last year tax credits that will be recognized for tax purposes this year took it said the company .
but because of confusion , those credits took again it in its results through the first nine months reporting .
the company 's effective tax rate increase the change to about 35 % from 20 % said jack w. forrest , environmental systems president and chief executive officer , .
a definitive merger agreement with isi systems inc. under which isi will acquire memotec for $ 20 ( u.s. . ) a share , or about $ 130 million , in cash and securities signed it said memotec data inc. .
in american stock exchange composite trading , closed up $ 3.125 isi at $ 18.625 .
in montreal exchange trading , closed unchanged memotec at 10.625 canadian dollars ( us$ 9.05 ) .
under the agreement , will merge isi , a braintree , mass. , provider of computer software and services to the insurance industry , with a u.s. unit of memotec created for that purpose said memotec .
is memotec a montreal-based maker of telecommunications products and provider of telecommunications and computer services .
call the agreement for a $ 20-a-share cash tender offer for all shares outstanding of isi to make it said memotec .
but his 60 % stake in isi to sell to memotec upon completion of the tender offer for a combination of cash , memotec stock and debentures agreed charles johnston , isi chairman and president , said it .
is conditioned the tender offer on , among other things , holders at least 15 % of the shares outstanding , other than the shares held by mr. johnston tendering said memotec .
management have instructed its board inquiries from any others interested in a bid making to accept said isi .
can withdraw it from the merger agreement with memotec if surface a better bid said isi .
the purchase of its common stock have resumed it under a program approved by its directors in 1987 said cms energy corp. , jackson , mich. , .
at the time of the original announcement , the purchase of as many as five million of its shares authorized its board said cms .
have been purchased 2.6 million shares since then said a spokesman .
additional shares will buy it `` from time to time '' in the open market or in private transactions at prevailing market prices said the company .
in composite trading on the new york stock exchange , closed down 62.5 cents , from the closing price of $ 37.375 a share on thursday , before friday 's plunge cms energy at $ 34.375 a share , .
about 82.1 million shares outstanding currently have the utility company .
will act morgan stanley & co. as the exclusive broker for the repurchase .
the electro-optics technology division of perkin-elmer corp to purchase agreed it said hughes aircraft co. , a unit of general motors corp. , .
was n't disclosed terms of the agreement .
but for the fiscal year ended july 31 , 1988 , the most recent period for which was broken out , results accounted the perkin-elmer unit for more than half the $ 145 million in sales recorded by the company 's government systems sector .
is the sale of the danbury , conn. , unit consistent with its restructuring strategy announced in april said perkin-elmer , which is based in norwalk , conn. , .
in addition electro-optical systems , to making laser warning receivers also make the unit .
pilots that have been focused a laser weapon on them to warn is used these aboard military helicopters .
efforts by its electro-optical and data systems group , which infrared sensors , military lasers and night vision equipment make complement the perkinelmer unit 's work said hughes of los angeles .
the sale to close by year end expect it said hughes .
a new regional contract and all but one of the local agreements with bell atlantic corp ratified the communications workers of america .
the tentative agreement rejected cwa 's new jersey commercial local , which about 2,500 service representatives and marketing employees , represent .
differences to resolve was working together they said both the union and the regional telephone company .
41,000 bell atlantic employees cover the new three-year contracts , which ones that expired aug. 5 , replace .
a 23-day strike against the philadelphia-based company follow the ratification .
meanwhile , remain cwa and international brotherhood of electrical workers members on strike against nynex corp. , the new york-based regional phone company .
last week agreed the unions and the company to mediation .
40,000 nynex workers represent the cwa and 20,000 workers represent the ibew .
for the moment , anxiety at least , have replaced euphoria on wall street .
to close at 2657.38 , the world 's markets , did n't sweep panic jumped sharply the dow jones industrial average yesterday and friday 's dizzying 190-point plunge to accept as a sharp correction , not a calamity seemed investors large and small .
among those sighing with relief was john h. gutfreund , chairman of salomon brothers , who yesterday 's events to monitor took to the firm 's trading floor .
as strength gained the rally at 3:15 p.m. , smiled broadly , he his unlit cigar brandished and stanley shopkorn , his top stock trader , slapped on the back .
at first , seemed it as if itself might repeat history .
as opened trading yesterday morning on the big board , could n't open stocks of many of the nation 's biggest companies for trading because buyers was overwhelming a wave of sell orders .
by 10:10 , was off 63.52 points , the dow industrials and still had n't opened the stock of ual corp. , friday 's plunge , had kicked off whose troubles .
but to turn around then , as quickly as had fallen the dow , began it .
ended it with a gain of 88.12 points .
by the market 's close , more than 416 million , the fourth highest on record totaled volume on the new york exchange .
the huge volume handled the big board without any obvious strain , in sharp contrast to black monday of 1987 .
but was largely confined the rally to the blue-chip stocks , which had been hard hit during friday 's selling frenzy .
overall , money lost more big board stocks than gained .
and was further hurt many arbitragers , already reeling from friday 's collapse of the ual deal , yesterday when collapsed a proposed takeover of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines , .
102.06 points , indeed , plunged the dow jones transportation average its second-worst drop in history .
world-wide , was trading generally manageable .
was hardest hit the frankfurt stock exchange of the major markets , with 12.8 % falling blue chips there .
in london , the market 's major index off 3.2 % , left a midday rally and only 1.8 % fell tokyo 's leading stock index in surprisingly lackluster trading .
was hit harder than tokyo 's , other , more thinly traded asian markets but there was no free-fall declines .
valuable lessons learned they since the 1987 crash say investors big and small : in this age of computerized trading , must be expected huge corrections or runups in a few hours ' time .
what 's more , is such short-term cataclysms survivable and are no cause for panic selling .
`` there was less panic than in 1987 : we had been through it once '' say stephen boesel , a major money manager for t. rowe price in baltimore , , .
in somerset , wis. , agree adrian sween , who a supplier of nursing-home equipment own and is n't active in the stock market , .
`` look i at it as a ho-hum matter , '' say he .
a part played many other factors in yesterday 's comeback .
its willingness liquidity to provide signaled the federal reserve ; inched downward early in the day the interest rate on its loans to major banks .
began off by relatively modest amounts foreign stock markets , which kicked off black monday with a huge selling spree , the day .
after falling sharply in overnight trading to 139.10 yen , fears that u.s. stocks would unload foreigners thus easing bounced back strongly the dollar , to 141.8 , .
and investors calm also helped the widely disseminated opinion among most market experts that was a crash n't in store .
for example , ready some of the blue chips had been sharply undervalued on friday felt they to buy came many major institutions , into work yesterday .
amid all the backslapping and signs of relief over yesterday 's events , that there is nothing present in the current market system another dizzying drop such as friday 's to prevent still , cautioned some market professionals .
`` there is too much complacency , '' say money manager barry schrager .
computers have increasingly connected securities markets world-wide , so that is often passed a buying or selling wave in one market around the globe .
yesterday 's opening in tokyo , where got off the nikkei average of 225 blue-chip stocks to a rocky start so nervously eyed investors everywhere .
some 600 points , or 1.7 % , plunged the average in the first 20 minutes of trading .
but no conviction , had the selling wave and first surged upward the market by 200 points , closing down 647 then drifted lower , .
in merrill lynch & co. 's tokyo trading room , sat quietly , some 40 traders and assistants with few orders to process .
`` all is staying clients '' out of the market , say one merrill trader .
little comfort to markets opening up in europe proved the relative calm in tokyo .
was delayed frankfurt 's opening a half hour because of a crush of sell orders .
`` was the beginning chaotic , '' say nigel longley , a broker for commerzbank
in london , also was the view from the trading floor of an american securities firm , jefferies & co. , troubling .
a computer screen 100 blue-chip stocks displaying colors each one red when is falling its price .
was the screen a sea of red .
`` concern , see i but panic , do n't see i '' say j. francis palamara , a new yorker who the 15-trader office run .
an encouraging message sending to wall street turned up london 's blue-chip stock index just before 8 a.m . new york time , .
when opened trading in new york at 9:30 a.m. edt , fell sharply stocks -- as expected .
had opened futures markets in chicago at a level would fall the dow by about 60 points suggesting .
with piled up sell orders from friday , could n't open about half the stocks in the dow on time .
by 9:45 , 27 points had dropped the industrial average .
by 10 a.m. , was down 49 it .
bottom ten minutes later , hit down 63.52 points , another 2.5 % the dow - .
but shortly before then , a turn sensed they say some of wall street 's sharpest traders , .
`` was off , treasury bonds was the first thing that my eye caught that was encouraging '' say austin george , head of stock trading at t. rowe price .
`` that was n't running pell-mell people to the safety of bonds meant it '' .
shortly after 10 a.m. , exploded upward the major market index , a chicago board of trade futures contract of 20 stocks the djia , to mimic designed .
was buoyed stock traders -- because the recovery in stocks had also started an upturn in the mmi on the tuesday following black monday .
`` have gone better , the mmi '' shouted a trader in the london office of shearson lehman hutton .
wild went shearson 's london trading room .
an ever-narrowing loss on wall street as posted their reuters , quotron and telerate screens shouted out traders .
then , nine minutes later , suddenly rebounded wall street to a gain on the day .
`` rally , rally , rally , '' shouted shearson 's andy rosen .
`` is this panic buying . ''
the rally led major blue-chip stocks like philip morris , general motors and proctor & gamble .
to be heavy buyers was said japanese .
reportedly loaded up german and dutch investors on kellogg co .
say traders , gains in , among other issues , alcan aluminium and mcdonald 's triggering then , kicked corporations with share buy-back programs into high gear , .
opened late down 8.5 walt disney co. , which one of the biggest sell-order imbalances had on friday and was one of seven stocks that trading halted and never reopened that day , yesterday at 114.5 , .
but 7.5 then suddenly burst upward it as stepped in goldman , sachs & co. and almost every share offer , bought said traders .
by 10:25 , cheers prompting on trading desks and exchange floors had turned up the dow for the day , .
among big board specialists , `` your offers pull '' meaning that higher prices to get for their shares soon expected specialists was the cry -- .
`` was it bedlam on the upside , '' said one big board specialist .
buying from wall street 's `` black boxes , '' computer programs large stock purchases to trigger during bullish periods designed spurred this technical strength .
typical , perhaps , was batterymarch 's dean lebaron .
`` the trading system turned on , we and whatever to do was programmed it did it '' . say mr. lebaron , who $ 10 billion , manages ,
what stocks bought the computer , asked `` do n't know i '' say the money manager , .
money was making not everybody .
was the carnage on the chicago board options exchange , the nation 's major options market , heavy after was halted the trading in s&p 100 stock-index options friday .
bullish positions had many market makers in the s&p 100 index options contract friday , and when came the shutdown was frozen they with huge losses .
over the weekend , the chicago market makers to get out of their positions at any cost monday morning told clearing firms .
`` was absolutely killed they , slaughtered , '' said one chicago-based options trader .
meanwhile , came a test of the stock market 's rally at about 2 p.m. , with the dow at 2600 , up 31 points on the day .
the dow 's strength had explained bargain hunting up to that point and that a drop in the dow was anticipating many market professionals say charles clough , a strategist at merrill lynch , .
traders to rattle moreover , might have been expected the announcement that his offer for amr corp. was withdrawing real estate magnate and sometime raider donald trump .
instead , only paused the rally for about 25 minutes and then steamed forward as buying resumed institutions .
closed the market minutes after its high for the day of reaching
across the country , yesterday 's events took many people in stride , while generally uneasy about the stock market in general remaining .
say james norman , the mayor of ava , mo. : `` do n't invest i in stocks .
money my hands can put i on much prefer i '' .
while found mayor norman monday reassuring the market 's performance , say he , uneasy remain he .
`` one thing saying half the experts and half the other about the course of the economy have we '' .
`` if come anything good out of this , that some of these lbos put it on the skids might be it '' . say ralph holzfaster , a farmer and farm-supply store operator in ogallala , neb. , of the last few days events ,
`` 're you on a roller coaster , and may last that say gordon fines , a money manager at ids financial services in minneapolis , .
is the public still cautious .
a definitive merger agreement for the 90.6 % of skipper 's inc. do n't own it to acquire a national pizza corp. unit for $ 11.50 a share , or about $ 28.1 million signed it said skipper 's inc. , bellevue , wash. , .
a tender offer for skipper 's to begin on friday , conditioned on at least two-thirds of skipper 's shares being tendered plan np acquisition co. , a national pizza unit , .
will be financed the transaction under its revolving credit agreement said pittsburg , kan.-based national pizza .
in national over-the-counter trading , 50 cents rose skipper 's shares to $ 11 .
remodeling and future growth finance will help the merger said skipper 's .
a $ 10-a-share proposal from national pizza previously turned down skipper 's and whether national pizza 's franchise agreements would violate the purchase questioned pizza hut inc. .
its dispute with pizza hut , settled it it the purchase to make allowing said national pizza .
a higher offer , permitting to turn around , also , began skipper 's results said national pizza .
for the 12 weeks ended sept. 3 , net income of $ 361,000 , or 13 cents a share , had skipper 's compared with a net loss a year earlier .
was revenue $ 19.9 million .
rallied east germans as honecker 's ouster reportedly sought officials .
in what the largest protest in the communist state 's 40-year history , was considered demands for democratic freedoms , to press marched at least 120,000 demonstrators through the southern city of leipzig said opposition activists .
did n't intervene police .
as their citizenship , renounced the first of more than 1,300 east germans to flee to the west through poland trying that the dismissal of hard-line leader honecker demanded regional communist officials meanwhile , reported a west german newspaper .
in a foreign policy speech , was it the `` legitimate right '' of the german people saying called secretary of state baker , for the reunification of germany , .
the soviet union 's press blamed gorbachev for contributing to the nation 's mounting problems .
at a meeting friday , complained the kremlin leader about recent articles that the possiblity of civil unrest , raised and the media of panic buying of goods fueling by stories about impending shortages publishing accused .
a permanent smoking ban on domestic airline routes within the continental u.s. and on flights of less than six hours to alaska and hawaii approved house-senate conferees .
all but a small percentage of flights , would cover the curbs and an expansion of the current ban on flights of less than two hours represent .
was sentenced e. robert wallach by a u.s. judge in new york to six years in prison and $ 250,000 fined for his racketeering conviction in the wedtech scandal .
guilty was found wallach , an associate of ex-attorney general meese , in august of $ 425,000 in illegal payoffs taking from the now-defunct defense contractor .
the countdown for today 's launch of the space shuttle atlantis , resumed nasa and a lawsuit by anti-nuclear groups the flight to delay because was aboard the plutonium-powered galileo space probe dismissed a federal appeals court in washington .
weather or protesters the liftoff to block did n't expect it said the space agency .
a ban on federal financing of research fetal tissue , using to extend is preparing the bush administration said government sources .
was imposed a temporary prohibition in march 1988 .
while is opposed anti-abortion groups to such research , such tissue transplanting could be effective in diabetes treating have said scientists .
a ban on world ivory trade endorsed delegates from 91 nations in an attempt the endangered elephant to rescue from extinction .
the valuable tusks selling would continue they however , said five african nations , .
reconciliation talks held mubarak with gadhafi at the egyptian resort of mersa metruh .
was it the libyan leader 's first trip to egypt in 16 years .
a reduction in formalities for travel , announced they but any real signs of full diplomatic ties resuming did n't show .
libya would visit he today the talks to resume said the egyptian president .
a tentative agreement visits between families to allow on the divided korean peninsula reached seoul and pyongyang .
remained however , differences between the north and south korean governments , over conditions for the exchanges .
political activity resumed freed black nationalists in south africa and to fight against apartheid , vowed fears of a possible white backlash raising .
that chaos and eventual black marxist rule bringing to the nation risked the government 's release sunday of eight black political prisoners warned the nation 's main white opposition party .
`` is fully satisfied bush '' with cia director webster and the intelligence agency 's performance during the oct. 3 failed coup in panama said the white house .
that was frustrated unidentified senior administration officials with webster 's low-profile activities during the insurrection and wanted replaced him reported the washington post .
limits on automatic wage increases approved poland 's legislature without special provisions for food price rises .
a test of the solidarity-led government 's resolve to proceed with a harsh economic-restructuring program was considered the vote .
a three-party non-socialist government installed norway 's king olav v as power relinquished gro harlem brundtland 's three-year-old labor regime .
is led the 19-member cabinet by prime minister jan syse , who a `` difficult situation '' acknowledged since only 62 seats in oslo 's 165-member legislature control the coalition .
a new round of talks with the country 's leftist rebels opened el salvador 's government in an effort a decade-long civil war to end .
a cease-fire proposal would present the guerrillas during the negotiations in costa rica that constitutional and economic changes include said a spokesman .
there was a `` possibility '' that their u.s.-supplied arms was selling some nicaraguan rebels to salvadoran guerrillas , said the state department but was it n't an organized effort insisted .
separately , complained secretary of state baker about a u.n. aide who last week the contras to disband told as part of a regional peace accord .
a provisional 0.4 % rose british retail sales volume in september from august and was up 2.2 % from september 1988 , said the department of trade and industry .
for the three months ended in september , was down 0.5 % from the previous three months and up 1.2 % from a year earlier retail sales volume .
three divisions of cluett peabody & co. to sell for about $ 600 million to bidermann s.a. , a closely held clothing maker based in paris agreed chicago investor william farley .
after the $ 1.56 billion acquisition of west point-pepperell inc. shortly completing in april , the sale of cluett , a leading shirt maker and one of west point-pepperell 's biggest units was considering it said mr. farley 's holding company , farley inc. , .
included is cluett units that men 's shirts make under the arrow name , socks under the gold toe name and menswear through the schoeneman division in the sale .
is the agreement subject to bidermann 's receipt of financing and to regulatory and other approvals said the companies .
to be concluded by the end of november is expected the sale said they .
a total of about $ 700 million should bring in the sale of three of cluett 's four main divisions plus other `` anticipated '' west point-pepperell asset sales by december , said mr. farley .
did n't elaborate he on other asset sales being considered .
a similar pattern followed mr. farley northwest industries inc. when acquired he and much of its assets then sold .
but fruit of the loom inc. , the underwear maker that still control he and serve as chairman and chief executive kept he .
was cluett an independent company until it acquired west point-pepperell for $ 375 million in cash and stock in 1986 .
in the fiscal year ended sept. 30 , 1988 , operating profit of $ 37 million on sales of $ 757 million had cluett .
clothes sell bidermann under various labels , including yves saint laurent and bill robinson for men and ralph lauren for women .
sales of $ 400 million had the company in 1988 said a spokesman .
in new york stock exchange composite trading , 25 cents fell west point-pepperell to $ 53.875 .
its name to change to manpower plc and a chunk of the nearly $ 1.2 billion in good will realized in the takeover of u.s.-based manpower inc write off intend britain 's blue arrow plc .
that the two steps may be a prelude the world 's biggest employment-services group in the u.s. to reincorporating said blue arrow chairman mitchell fromstein in an interview .
the planned steps , expected within a few months , disclosed mr. fromstein as a 2.5 % drop in its third-quarter pretax earnings posted blue arrow .
blue arrow 's dominance of the u.s. temporary-help market solidify and a more american image give it as jittery about foreign stocks turn u.s. investors after friday 's market plunge could help the name change and good will write-off .
more than 60 % of blue arrow now own u.s. holders compared with 9 % last january .
`` in the u.s. market , is the recognition of the manpower name infinitely stronger than blue arrow , '' said mr. fromstein .
shareholders ' perception of blue arrow as a company in turmoil also could erase the moves .
`` the concept that is blue arrow a thing of the past , further reinforce it '' said doug arthur , an analyst at kidder peabody & co. in new york .
a lot of sense make the proposed changes `` all '' to me , added he .
in a widely publicized boardroom coup , antony berry ousted mr. fromstein as blue arrow chief executive in january , a month after mr. fromstein had forced out mr. berry as the $ 1 million-a-year chief of milwaukee-based manpower .
his control solidified mr. fromstein in april by taking over from mr. berry as chairman .
but is n't over yet , the blue arrow tumult as a disputed # 25 million ( $ 39.4 million ) loan which was made under mr. berry 's direction have said mr. fromstein is investigating the british government .
was blue arrow able the $ 1.34 billion takeover of manpower to pull off in 1987 because higher reported earnings largely produce different british and american accounting standards for british companies .
under british rules , was blue arrow able the $ 1.15 billion in good will arising from the purchase to write off at once .
as a u.s.-based company , the good will to amortize over as many as 40 years , a continuing drag on reported earnings creating would have blue arrow .
is good will the excess of cost of an acquired firm , operating unit or assets over the current or fair market value of those assets .
but with so many shares now held in the u.s. , two ways , report blue arrow its earnings based on both u.k. and u.s. accounting standards .
`` look our balance sheets like came they from alice 's wonderland , '' said mr. fromstein .
`` a handful of pounds of net worth '' show the british version following the 1987 write-off of good will , while `` $ 1 billion of net worth '' reflect the american version because have been written off almost none of -lcb- the good will -rcb- .
some of the good will left on blue arrow 's u.s. books to eradicate in one fell swoop , hope he said mr. fromstein but how much would n't specify .
a sizable chunk , would represent the write-down with the extent of manpower 's good will overstated prior management claiming executives suggested people close to blue arrow .
along with the return to the manpower name , the company 's prospects could bolster that move , during possibly difficult times for temporary help .
about 1 % fell the number of u.s. temporary workers in the 12 months ending aug. 31 , after nearly 3.5 % sliding in july , said kidder peabody 's mr. arthur .
the pretax profit drop in the quarter ended july 31 blamed partly blue arrow on slower earnings growth of non-manpower units in britain .
overall , slid pretax profit to # 18.49 million in the quarter from # 18.98 million a year earlier .
a similar turnaround at the company 's latest acquisition , barry wright corp to guide hope richard g. sim , the man credited with applied power inc. transforming from an underachiever into a feisty player in the global market for hydraulic tools , .
it will be easier this time figure the 45-year-old former general electric co. executive .
but while the acquisition , applauding a tough challenge in the two companies integrating face applied 's chief executive say analysts , .
computer-room equipment and vibration-control systems make barry wright , acquired by applied for $ 147 million , .
the watertown , mass. , company 's sales have been dormant and have dropped its profits .
was last year 's earnings of $ 1.3 million , including $ 815,000 from a restructuring gain , far below the year-earlier $ 8.4 million .
besides barry wright 's sales , which were $ 201.7 million in 1988 , spurring its costs and product line must pare mr. sim .
`` barry wright to take a contribution , to make how long be going it is the question '' say f. john mirek , an analyst at blunt ellis loewi in milwaukee .
whether the ambitious goals set by mr. sim to reach continues applied determine will help the answer .
public went the butler , wis. , manufacturer at $ 15.75 a share in august 1987 , and then was mr. sim 's goal a $ 29 per-share price by 1992 .
that price achieve far ahead of schedule , in august 1988 helped strong earnings growth .
around $ 25 a share trading last week and closing yesterday at $ 23.00 in national over-the-counter trading have since softened the stock , .
but a fresh target of $ 50 a share have set mr. sim by the end of
say robert t. foote , applied 's chief financial officer , `` efficient reinvestment '' of cash by applied and continuation of its healthy 19 % rate of return on operating capital will require that goal , reaching .
in barry wright , a situation `` very similar '' to the one faced he applied when joined he as president and chief operating officer in 1985 see mr. sim .
was stagnating applied , then a closely held company , under the management of its controlling family .
while profitable , `` was n't growing it and a satisfactory return on invested capital , was n't providing '' say he .
is mr. sim confident that will work the drive certain niche markets to dominate at barry wright as it has at applied .
an `` evangelical '' fervor a corporate culture that managers who produce reward and where is shared decision-making to develop also profess he .
the new unit 's operations `` fundamentally sound '' consider mr. sim and that barry wright has been fairly successful in moving into markets that larger competitors have n't interested add .
`` with a little patience , will perform very satisfactorily , these businesses '' say mr. sim .
within about six months , `` will be moving things in the right direction , '' predict he .
it will be easier barry wright to turn around since be he now in the driver 's seat figure mr. sim .
when came he to applied , `` the power to execute as do i today , did n't have i '' say he .
chief executive officer of applied was named he in 1986 and chairman became last november .
at applied , growth set mr. sim as his first objective .
the company public took he in an offering that about $ 12.6 million , netted applied which the company 's acquisition program launch helped .
climbed sales to an estimated $ 245 million in fiscal 1989 , ended aug. 31 , from $ 99.9 million in fiscal 1985 .
that about $ 20.8 million , or $ 1.58 a share , reached up from $ 15.2 million in fiscal 1988 and $ 3.9 million in 1985 earnings , which have marched steadily upward in recent years , in the fiscal year just ended , expect the company .
