no , it was n't black monday .
but while the new york stock exchange did n't fall apart friday as 190.58 points -- most of it in the final hour -- the dow jones industrial average plunged this side of chaos to stay it barely managed .
their first test , unable the selling panic in both stocks and futures to cool some `` circuit breakers '' installed after the october 1987 crash failed traders say , .
the selling pressure the 49 stock specialist firms on the big board floor -- the buyers and sellers of last resort who was criticized after the 1987 crash -- once again could n't handle .
the beleaguered floor traders to support by big blocks of stock , buying to step up to the plate big investment banks refused traders say .
stocks heavy selling of standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures in chicago relentlessly beat downward .
trading seven big board stocks -- ual , amr , bankamerica , walt disney , capital cities/abc , philip morris and pacific telesis group -- stopped and never resumed .
the finger-pointing have already begun .
`` the equity market was illiquid .
'' once again -lcb- -rcb- the specialists was not able the imbalances on the floor of the new york stock exchange , to handle christopher pedersen , senior vice president at twenty-first securities corp said .
`` it is easy his job the specialist is n't doing to say james maguire , chairman of specialists henderson brothers inc. countered : .
when the dollar is in a free-fall , it even central banks ca n't stop .
speculators is calling for a degree of liquidity that is not there in the market '' .
their offices many money managers and some traders had already left early friday afternoon on a warm autumn day -- because the stock market was so quiet .
in a lightning plunge , in barely an hour about a third of their gains this year , the dow jones industrials then surrendered a 190.58-point , or 6.9 % , loss on the day chalking up in gargantuan trading volume .
final-hour trading accelerated to 108.1 million shares , a record for the big board .
at the end of the day , 251.2 million shares was traded .
the dow jones industrials closed at 2569.26 .
the dow 's decline was second in point terms only to the 508-point black monday crash that occurred oct. 19 , 1987 .
in percentage terms , however , the dow 's dive was the 12th-worst ever and the sharpest since 156.83 , or 8 % , the market fell a week after black monday .
22.6 % the dow fell on black monday .
shares of ual , the parent of united airlines , was extremely active all day friday , reacting to news and rumors about the proposed $ 6.79 billion buy-out of the airline by an employee-management group .
unusually large bets that a takeover would succeed and ual stock would rise wall street 's takeover-stock speculators , or `` risk arbitragers , '' had placed .
at 2:43 p.m. edt , the sickening news came : trading in ual , the big board was halting `` pending news '' .
on the exchange floor , `` we as soon as trading , ual stopped braced for a panic , '' one top floor trader said .
their heads shaking several traders could be seen the news when flashed .
for weeks , the market had been nervous about takeovers , after concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers campeau corp. 's cash crunch spurred .
and 10 minutes after the ual trading halt news that financing for its bid the ual group could n't get came .
at this point , the dow was down about 35 points .
the market crumbled .
their ual stock arbitragers could n't dump -- but themselves they rid of nearly every `` rumor '' stock they had .
for example , trading halts in usair group , which closed down 3 7/8 to 41 1/2 , delta air lines , which 7 3/4 fell to 69 1/4 , and philips industries , which 3 sank to 21 1/2 to be declared their selling caused .
these stocks eventually reopened .
but as panic spread , blue-chip stocks such as philip morris and international business machines to sell their losses to offset speculators began .
trading when was halted in philip morris , the stock was trading down 3 3/8 , at 41 , while ibm closed 5 5/8 lower at 102 .
selling snowballed because of waves of automatic `` stop-loss '' orders , which is triggered by computer prices when fall to certain levels .
on the other hand , most of their major institutional investors , sat tight traders said .
at 3:07 , hold one of the market 's post-crash `` reforms '' now , took as 12 points , equivalent to around a 100-point drop in the dow industrials the s&p 500 futures contract had plunged .
under an agreement signed by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange , trading was temporarily halted in chicago .
after the trading halt in the s&p 500 pit in chicago , stocks themselves to hit on the big board , waves of selling continued and prices to notch down specialists continued .
as a result , the link between the futures and stock markets ripped apart .
without the guidepost of stock-index futures -- the barometer of the overall stock market is headed traders where think -- many traders was afraid stock prices quoted on the big board to trust .
the futures halt was even assailed by big board floor traders .
`` things it screwed up , '' one major specialist said .
one form of program trading , stock index arbitrage , that the futures and stock markets , closely link and has been blamed by some for the market 's big swings this confusion effectively halted .
( in a stock-index arbitrage sell program , big baskets of stocks traders buy or sell and the trade in futures offset a price difference to lock in ) .
`` the airline information when came through , every model we had for the marketplace , it cracked '' said a managing director at one of the largest program-trading firms .
`` a chance the programs to do we wanted to do we did n't even get '' .
but falling stocks kept .
the dow industrials was down 55 points at 3 p.m. before the futures-trading halt .
at 3:30 p.m. , at the end of the `` cooling '' off period , the average was down 114.76 points .
during the the s&p trading halt , piling up , s&p futures sell orders meanwhile , began while falling sharply stocks in new york kept .
`` the circuit breaker worked well mechanically big board chairman john j. phelan said yesterday .
it be nonproductive at this point to get into a debate if things index arbitrage would have helped or hurt i just think '' .
under another post-crash system , ( mr. phelan was flying to bangkok as the market was falling ) big board president richard grasso was talking on an `` inter-exchange hot line '' to the other exchanges , the securities and exchange commission and the federal reserve board .
he camped out at a high-tech nerve center on the floor of the big board , updates on prices and pending stock orders he where could watch .
at about 3:30 p.m. edt , trading , s&p futures resumed and for a brief time to come back in line the futures and stock markets started .
buyers stepped in to the futures pit .
but the build-up of s&p futures sell orders weighed on the market , and to fray again the link with stocks began .
at about 3:45 , the s&p market careened to still another limit , of 30 points down , and trading was locked again .
that as much as 200 points the dow could fall the s&p was signaling futures traders say .
during this time , their brokers , ringing whether another crash had begun wondering small investors began .
this would be the final confidence-crusher at prudential-bache securities inc. , which to cater to small investors , is trying some demoralized brokers thought .
that be that the plunge was only `` mechanical '' to declare george l. ball , chairman of the prudential insurance co. of america unit , when took to the internal intercom system .
`` a hunch that this particular decline today is something ` more ado about less i have ' .
'' it would be my inclination clients to advise not to sell , to look for an opportunity to buy , the brokers mr. ball told .
at merrill lynch & co. , the nation 's biggest brokerage firm , a news release was prepared `` merrill lynch comments on market drop '' headlined .
that `` significant differences between the current environment and that of october 1987 there is '' and that `` attractive investment opportunities '' in the stock market there is still the release cautioned .
that `` relations with customers , to set back friday 's plunge is going '' `` because the concern of volatility it reinforce jeffrey b. lane , president of shearson lehman hutton inc. , however , said .
and a lot of people will harp on program trading i think .
the debate to bring right back to the forefront it be going '' .
as the dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss friday , locked at its 30-point trading limit the s&p pit stayed .
2,000 s&p contracts was for sale on the close , the equivalent of $ 330 million in stock jeffrey yass of program trader susquehanna investment group said .
but no buyers there was .
while professional traders rather than investors , friday 's debacle involved mainly the market vulnerable to continued selling this morning , it left traders said .
stock-index futures contracts settled at much lower prices than indexes of the stock market itself .
at those levels , by index arbitragers , who profits lock in by futures buying futures prices when fall , and stocks simultaneously sell off to be hammered stocks is set up .
but at what level the futures and stocks will open today nobody know .
the de-linkage between the stock and futures markets friday will undoubtedly cause renewed debate about whether wall street is properly prepared for another crash situation .
`` our systemic performance was good '' the big board 's mr. grasso said , .
but `` the exchange will look at the performance of all specialists in all stocks .
'' a close look at any situation in which the dealer-community obligations was n't met , we think we obviously 'll take he said .
but that just as in the 1987 crash , the `` upstairs '' firms -- big investment banks that the market support by big blocks of stock trading -- stayed on the sidelines during friday 's blood-letting specialists complain privately .
`` it will take another day or two '' who was buying and selling friday to analyze mr. phelan said , .
concerning your sept. 21 page-one article on prince charles and the leeches : it be a few hundred years since england has been a kingdom .
it be now the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland , comprising wales , northern ireland , scotland , and ... oh yes , england , too .
agreements its remaining seven aircraft to buyers that was n't disclosed to sell ports of call inc. reached .
the number of planes the travel company have sold this year as part of a restructuring the agreements bring to a total of nine .
its bank debt and other obligations resulting from the currently suspended air-charter operations to repay a portion of the $ 32 million realized from the sales will be used the company said .
its aging fleet of boeing co. 707s it would sell because of increasing maintenance costs the company earlier announced .
a $ 409 million cash bid for most of l.j. hooker corp. 's real-estate and shopping-center holdings it have made a consortium of private investors operating as ljh funding co. said .
the assumption of an estimated $ 300 million in secured liabilities on those properties , the $ 409 million bid include according to those the bid making .
the group is led by jay shidler , chief executive officer of shidler investment corp. in honolulu , and a. boyd simpson , chief executive of the atlanta-based simpson organization inc .
mr. shidler 's company specialize in commercial real-estate investment and $ 1 billion in assets to have claim ; mr. simpson is a developer and a former senior executive of l.j. hooker .
`` the assets is good , but more money and management than can be provided in l.j. hooker 's current situation , they require '' mr. simpson said in an interview .
to build and sell hooker 's philosophy was .
to build and hold we want '' .
l.j. hooker , based in atlanta , is operating with protection from its creditors under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code .
its parent company , hooker corp. of sydney , australia , is currently being managed by a court-appointed provisional liquidator .
that the bid he have not yet seen but that it he would review and it bring to the attention of the creditors committee sanford sigoloff , chief executive of l.j. hooker , said yesterday in a statement .
the $ 409 million bid is estimated by mr. simpson as 75 % of the value of all hooker real-estate holdings in the u.s. representing .
bonwit teller or b. altman & co. , l.j. hooker 's department-store chains not included is in the bid .
the massive 1.8 million-square-foot forest fair mall in cincinnati , the 800,000 square-foot richland fashion mall in columbia , s.c. , and the 700,000 square-foot thornton town center mall in thornton , colo the offer cover .
the thornton mall opened sept. 19 with a bigg 's hypermarket as its anchor ; to open nov. 15 the columbia mall is expected .
other hooker properties included is a 20-story office tower in midtown atlanta , to be completed next february expected ; vacant land sites in florida and ohio ; l.j. hooker international , the commercial real-estate brokerage company that business once did as merrill lynch commercial real estate , plus other shopping centers .
the consortium was put together by hoare govett , the london-based investment banking company that is a subsidiary of security pacific corp .
`` any problems in the funding for the bid , raising we do n't anticipate '' allan campbell , the head of mergers and acquisitions at hoare govett , said in an interview .
hoare govett is acting as the consortium 's investment bankers .
according to people familiar with the consortium , the bid was code-named project klute , a reference to the film `` klute '' in which a prostitute played by actress jane fonda is saved from a psychotic businessman by a police officer john klute named .
l.j. hooker was a small home-building company based in atlanta in 1979 it to push into commercial development mr. simpson when was hired .
the company grew modestly until 1986 , a majority position in hooker corp. when was acquired by australian developer george herscu , currently hooker 's chairman .
an ambitious , but ill-fated , $ 1 billion acquisition binge that bonwit teller and b. altman & co. , as well as majority positions in merksamer jewelers , a sacramento chain ; sakowitz inc. , the houston-based retailer , and parisian inc. , the southeast department-store chain included to launch mr. herscu proceeded .
a falling out mr. simpson and mr. herscu eventually had over the direction of the company , and he resigned in 1988 mr. simpson said .
since then , its interest in the parisian chain hooker corp. have sold back to parisian 's management and the b. altman & co. chain to sell is currently attempting .
in addition , funds the hooker interest in his company to buy out robert sakowitz , chief executive of the sakowitz chain , is seeking .
the merksamer chain is currently being offered for sale by first boston corp .
reached in honolulu , that profitable the various hooker malls can become with new management he believe mr. shidler said .
`` these is n't mature assets , but the potential to be so , they have '' mr. shidler said .
`` managed properly , and with a long-term outlook , investment-grade quality properties these can become .
291,890 metric tons canadian steel-ingot production totaled up 14.8 % from the preceding week 's total of 254,280 tons , in the week ended oct. 7 , statistics canada , a federal agency , said .
the week 's total was up 6.2 % from 274,963 tons a year earlier .
the year-to-date total was 12,006,883 tons , up 7.8 % from 11,141,711 tons a year earlier .
oct. 26 the bills will be dated and will mature oct. 25 , 1990 .
bids must be received by 1 p.m. edt thursday at the treasury or at federal reserve banks or branches .
as their mutual funds small investors peppered with phone calls over the weekend , a strong defense against any wave of withdrawals : cash they have big fund managers said .
unlike the weekend before black monday , the funds was n't swamped with heavy withdrawal requests .
and cash levels many fund managers have built up and stock they will be buying this week say .
at fidelity investments , the nation 's largest fund company , telephone volume was up sharply , but it was still at just half the level of the weekend preceding black monday in 1987 .
stock-fund redemptions was running at less than one-third the level two years ago the boston firm said .
as of yesterday afternoon , less than 15 % of the total cash position of about $ 2 billion of fidelity 's stock funds the redemptions represented .
`` massive redemption levels over the weekend and a lot of fear around , two years ago there was '' c. bruce johnstone , who fidelity investments ' $ 5 billion equity-income fund run said .
`` this feel more like a one-shot deal .
people is n't panicking '' .
the test may come today .
friday 's stock market sell-off came too late for many investors to act .
some shareholders have held off until today because place any fund exchanges made after friday 's close would take at today 's closing prices .
during the 1987 debacle to snowball stock fund redemptions did n't begin until after the market opened on black monday .
but they be ready fund managers say .
for instance , cash positions well above 20 % mario gabelli , hold in several of his funds .
their cash levels they had raised to more than 20 % and 30 % , respectively , this year windsor fund 's john neff and mutual series ' michael price said .
cash even peter lynch , manager of fidelity 's $ 12.7 billion magellan fund , the nation 's largest stock fund , built up to 7 % or $ 850 million .
that after two years of monthly net redemptions , net inflows of money from investors the fund posted in august and september one reason is .
`` the money build up , i have let '' who that trouble stocks he likes finding he has had added mr. lynch said , .
cash levels , not all funds have raised of course .
as a group , 10.2 % of assets the latest figures available from the investment company institute stock funds held in cash as of august , .
that was modestly higher than the 8.8 % and 9.2 % levels in august and september of 1987 .
some fund managers stocks to dump cash to raise persistent redemptions also , would force .
but a strong level of investor withdrawals is much more unlikely this time around , fund managers said .
that their purchases of stock funds investors already have sharply scaled back since black monday a major reason is .
stock-fund sales have rebounded in recent months , but monthly net purchases is still running at less than half 1987 levels .
`` nearly as much froth , there be not '' john bogle , chairman of vanguard group inc. , a big valley forge , pa. , fund company said .
that now 's the time to buy many fund managers argue .
vincent bajakian , manager of the $ 1.8 billion wellington fund , added to his positions in bristol-myers squibb , woolworth and dun & bradstreet friday .
and today drug stocks like eli lilly , pfizer and american home products whose dividend yields have been bolstered by stock declines to buy he 'll be looking .
for his part , southern co. shares fidelity 's mr. lynch , snapped up friday after the stock got hammered .
if the market drop further today , blue chips such as bristol-myers and kellogg he 'll be buying he said .
`` if stocks like that , they croak '' he said , an opportunity that is `` the kind of thing you dream about '' it present .
phone calls was arriving at twice the normal weekend pace yesterday major mutual-fund groups said .
but share prices and other information most investors was seeking .
trading volume was only modestly higher than normal .
any chances fund groups still , is n't taking .
the jammed phone lines and other snags that some fund investors infuriated in october 1987 to avoid they hope .
on saturday its 54 walk-in investor centers across the country fidelity opened .
normally the centers is closed through the weekend .
in addition , east coast centers will open at 7:30 edt this morning , instead of the normal 8:30 .
its staff of phone representatives investor requests to handle t. rowe price associates inc. increased .
that money some investors moved from stock funds to money-market funds the baltimore-based group noted .
but to be `` in an information mode rather than in a transaction mode , '' most investors seemed steven norwitz , a vice president said .
and among other groups , more phone representatives it was adding today investors get through to help vanguard , said .
in an unusual move , investors to calm with recordings on their toll-free phone lines several funds moved .
`` -lcb- friday 's -rcb- market decline we view as a buying opportunity offering us as long-term investors , '' a recording at gabelli & co. funds said over the weekend .
a similar recording the janus group had for investors .
a rough market this morning several fund managers expect before prices stabilize .
some early selling is likely from investors and portfolio managers who this year 's fat profits to lock in want to stem .
a staggering gain of 25 % stock funds have averaged through september , according to lipper analytical services inc .
the market will open down at least 50 points on technical factors and `` some panic selling '' elaine garzarelli , who shearson lehman hutton inc. 's $ 335 million sector analysis portfolio , run predict .
but prices to rebound soon she expect and investors more than 10 % to 15 % the stock market wo n't decline from recent highs she expect is telling .
`` this is not a major crash , '' she said .
she was swamped with phone calls over the weekend from nervous shareholders ms. garzarelli nevertheless , said .
`` half of them is really scared and to sell , want '' she said , `` but '' them to talk out of it i be trying .
`` if all they was bullish , i 'd really be upset '' she added , .
the backdrop to friday 's slide was markedly different from that of the october 1987 crash , fund managers argue .
two years ago , unlike today , the dollar was weak , interest rates was rising and the market was very overvalued , they say .
`` from the investors ' standpoint , a painful lesson institutions and individuals learned ... by selling at the lows on black monday , '' stephen boesel , manager of the $ 580 million t. rowe price growth and income fund said .
this time , `` a panic reaction we 'll get i do n't think .
fiscal-first-quarter earnings of between 15 cents and 19 cents a share , somewhat below analysts ' estimates of 19 cents to 23 cents to report it expect newport corp. said .
orders fell below expectations in recent months the maker of scientific instruments and laser parts said .
that will the yearearlier quarter 's figure , net income of $ 1.7 million , or 21 cents a share , on $ 14.1 million in sales newport when reported sales in the current quarter about equal a spokesman added .
air carriers ripples from the strike by 55,000 machinists union members against boeing co. reached friday as its new service out of houston it will postpone because of delays in aircraft receiving from the seattle jet maker america west airlines announced .
that `` some turmoil in our scheduling the work stoppage at boeing , now entering its 13th day , have caused '' and that more than 500 passengers who to fly out of houston on america west were booked would now be put on other airlines peter otradovec , vice president for planning at the phoenix , ariz. , carrier , said in an interview .
america west that the 757 to get this thursday it was supposed would n't be delivered until nov. 7 -- the day after service at houston to initiate with four daily flights , including three nonstops to phoenix and one nonstop to las vegas the airline had been planning boeing told mr. otradovec said .
to begin those routes now , is n't expected until jan .
another 757 twin-engine aircraft as well as a 737 to send to america west by year 's end boeing is also supposed .
too , those , is almost certain to arrive late .
at this point , no other america west flights -- including its new service at san antonio , texas ; newark , n.j. ; and palmdale , calif. -- have been affected by the delays in boeing deliveries .
the domino effect that a huge manufacturer such as boeing can have on other parts of the economy the company 's reaction nevertheless , underscore .
also it is sure added pressure the machinists put on the company to help .
`` that a prolonged walkout , the company can really stand or would want i just do n't feel '' tom baker , president of machinists ' district 751 , said in an interview yesterday .
`` it their customers would like very much i do n't think '' .
though , america west , is a smaller airline and than many of its competitors would be therefore more affected by the delayed delivery of a single plane .
`` that such a hard time all the planes in their fleets , counting one they might not miss at all , american and united probably have i figure '' mr. otradovec said .
that much of an effect on other airline operations the strike was having to indicate a random check friday indeed , did n't seem .
a boeing 737-300 set for delivery at the end of this month southwest airlines have and the plane to have on time expect .
`` it be so close to completion , us there wo n't be a problem , boeing be told '' a southwest spokesman said .
american airlines boeing have assured a 757 it will deliver on time later this month a spokesman for amr corp. said .
delivery to take of another 757 in early december and 20 more next year american is preparing and any changes in that timetable is n't anticipating .
in seattle , that the company has been in constant communication with all of its customers and that it was impossible what further disruptions might be triggered by the strike to predict a boeing spokesman explained .
some 40 aircraft -- mostly 747 and 767 jumbo jets at the company 's everett , wash. , plant -- that were all but completed before the walkout to finish supervisors and non-striking employees meanwhile , have been trying .
as of friday , four had been delivered and to be flown out over the weekend to air china a fifth plane , a 747-400 , was supposed .
to get back to the bargaining table no date have yet been set .
`` sure what they want before they come back , they know to make we want '' doug hammond , the federal mediator who has been in contact with both sides since the strike began said .
for one , a speedy resolution the investment community , have been anticipating .
though boeing 's stock price was battered along with the rest of the market friday , it actually have risen over the last two weeks on the strength of new orders .
`` two views : that the labor situation will get settled in the short term and that very rosy things look for boeing in the long term , the market have taken '' howard rubel , an analyst at cyrus j. lawrence inc said .
$ 4 boeing 's shares fell friday to close at $ 57.375 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange .
but the earliest a pact could be struck would be the end of this month , he think that negotiations the company and union may resume as early as this week hinting mr. baker said .
still , he said , it be possible that the strike could last considerably longer .
`` an immediate resolution to anything i would n't expect '' .
last week , a letter , boeing chairman frank shrontz sent striking workers that `` to my knowledge , the best overall three-year contract of any major u.s. industrial firm in recent history boeing 's offer represent '' saying .
but the letter -- and the company 's offer of a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus bonuses -- `` very weak '' mr. baker called .
that the union 's resolve and the workers ' disgust with many hours to work overtime being forced the company miscalculated he added .
in separate developments : -- talks have broken off between machinists representatives at lockheed corp. and the calabasas , calif. , aerospace company .
to work through its expired contract , the union is continuing however .
a strike vote it had planned for next sunday , but that has been pushed back indefinitely .
-- its contract to extend on a day-by-day basis , with a 10-day notification to cancel , while bargaining it continue it agreed united auto workers local 1069 , which 3,000 workers at boeing 's helicopter unit in delaware county , pa. , represent said .
the accord expired yesterday .
-- and on friday an order it received from martinair holland for four model 767-300 wide-body jetliners valued at a total of about $ 326 million boeing said .
the planes , long range versions of the medium-haul twin-jet , will be delivered with pratt & whitney pw4060 engines .
pratt & whitney is a unit of united technologies inc .
martinair holland is based in amsterdam .
a delivery date for the planes is still being worked out `` for a variety of reasons , but not because of the strike '' a boeing spokeswoman said .
bridget o'brian contributed to this article .
its utilities arm is considering new electric power plants , some valued at more than one billion canadian dollars ( us$ 851 million ) , in great britain and elsewhere building atco ltd. said .
cogeneration projects in eastern canada , and conventional electric power generating plants elsewhere , including britain , where the british government plans limited competition in electrical generation from private-sector suppliers to allow as part of its privatization program its 50.1%-owned canadian utilities ltd. unit is reviewing c.s. richardson , atco 's senior vice president , finance , said .
`` the projects is big .
'' they can be c$ 1 billion plus , mr. richardson said .
`` but we would n't go alone , into them '' and canadian utilities ' equity stake would be small , he said .
`` to be the operator -lcb- of the project -rcb- and a modest equity investor we ideally , 'd like .
our long suit is our proven ability power plants , to operate '' he said .
specifics atco 's proposed british project , regarding mr. richardson would n't offer but it with two huge british power generating companies that would be formed under the country 's plan its massive water and electric utilities to privatize would compete for customers he said .
about # 20 billion ( $ 31.05 billion ) to raise from the sale of most of its giant water and electric utilities , beginning next month britain 's government plan .
# 13 billion , to raise it the world 's largest public offering making the planned electric utility sale , scheduled for next year , is alone expected .
1988 revenue of c$ 1.16 billion , canadian utilities had mainly from its natural gas and electric utility businesses in alberta , about 800,000 customers the company where serve .
`` to be a move around the world the generation of electricity , to deregulate there seems '' mr. richardson said , and to capitalize on it canadian utilities hope .
`` this is a real thrust on our utility side , '' that projects in underdeveloped countries , canadian utilities is also mulling adding though he would be specific he said , .
canadian utilities is n't alone in power generation opportunities in britain , exploring in anticipation of the privatization program .
`` we be certainly looking at some power generating projects in england , '' bruce stram , vice president , corporate strategy and corporate planning , with enron corp. , houston , a big natural gas producer and pipeline operator said .
enron is considering gas-fired power plants capable of about 500 megawatts of power producing building in the u.k. at a cost of about $ 300 million to $ 400 million mr. stram said .
third earnings of $ 1.3 million to $ 1.7 million , or 14 cents to 18 cents a share to report it expect pse inc. said .
in the year-ago quarter , net income of $ 326,000 , or four cents a share , the designer and operator of cogeneration and waste heat recovery plants had on revenue of about $ 41.4 million .
the improvement to additional cogeneration facilities that have been put into operation is related the company said .
concorde trans-atlantic flights is $ 2,400 to paris and $ 3,200 to london .
in a centennial journal article oct. 5 , the fares was reversed .
gas it had discovered offshore louisiana diamond shamrock offshore partners said .
diamond shamrock is the operator , with a 100 % interest in the well .
12.5 cents diamond shamrock offshore 's stock rose friday to close at $ 8.25 in new york stock exchange composite trading .
a $ 53.4 million limited partnership subsidiary land in california suitable for residential development to buy it formed kaufman & broad home corp. said .
the partnership , kaufman & broad land development venture limited partnership , is a 50-50 joint venture with a trust created by institutional clients of heitman advisory corp. , a unit of heitman financial corp. , a real estate advisory , management and development company with offices in chicago and beverly hills , calif .
the institutional investors to identify kaufman & broad , a home building company , declined .
zoning and other approvals required for development , the land to be purchased by the joint venture have n't yet received and such approvals to obtain part of kaufman & broad 's job will be .
the risk that the approvals for development , it may not get the partnership run but in return , land it can buy at wholesale rather than retail prices , which can result in sizable savings , bruce karatz , president and chief executive officer of kaufman & broad said .
`` very few companies that adequate capital properties in a raw state to buy for cash have there is really .
'' property , developers typically , option and once the administrative approvals , they get it , they then buy mr. karatz , said that the joint venture is the first of its kind he believe adding .
`` we usually operate in that conservative manner '' .
by the joint venture , setting up the more aggressive approach of raw land , buying kaufman & broad can take while the negative impacts to its own balance sheet , avoiding mr. karatz said .
only 10 % of the capital , the company is putting up although it is responsible for management , planning and processing services providing to the joint venture .
`` this is one of the best ways a pipeline of land our growth to fuel to assure at a minimum risk to our company , '' mr. karatz said .
the price of plastics when took off in 1987 , quantum chemical corp. went along for the ride .
to be nothing less than inspired , the timing of quantum 's chief executive officer , john hoyt stookey , appeared because quantum 's reliance on plastics he had just increased .
much of the chemical industry the company outpaced as annual profit grew fivefold in two years .
`` to last a whole lot longer than anybody think it be going '' mr. stookey said of the boom , .
but prices now have nose-dived and quantum 's profit is plummeting .
some securities analysts is looking for no better than break-even results from the company for the third quarter , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , on sales of $ 724.4 million .
nearly a quarter of its value having lost since sept. 1 , the stock , closed down $ 1.125 , at $ 34.375 share , in new york stock exchange composite trading friday .
to a degree , the new times that have arrived for producers of the so-called commodity plastics that modern life pervade quantum represent .
having just passed through one of the most profitable periods in their history , these producers now see their prices eroding .
to be sure , pricing cycles , is nothing new for plastics producers .
and steep the financial decline of some look only in comparison with the heady period that is just behind them .
`` we was all wonderful heroes last year , '' an executive at one of quantum 's competitors say .
`` now we be at the bottom of the heap . ''
at quantum , which is based in new york , the trouble is magnified by the company 's heavy dependence on plastics .
once known as national distillers & chemical corp. , the wine and spirits business the company exited and more of its resources plowed into plastics after the chief executive 's job mr. stookey took in 1986 .
to be interviewed for this article , mr. stookey , 59 years old , declined but that over the long haul -- across both the peaks and the troughs of the plastics market -- quantum will prosper through its new direction he have consistently argued .
quantum 's lot is mostly tied to polyethylene resin , garbage bags , milk jugs , housewares , toys and meat packaging , among other items to make used .
in the u.s. polyethylene market , the largest share , about 20 % quantum have claimed .
but much broader business interests its competitors -- including dow chemical co. , union carbide corp. and several oil giants -- have and so are better cushioned against price swings .
a mere penny a pound , the price of polyethylene when move quantum 's annual profit fluctuate by about 85 cents a share , provided no other variables is changing .
in recent months a dive the price of polyethylene , even more than that of other commodity plastics , have taken .
benchmark grades , which still sold for as much as 50 cents a pound last spring , have skidded to between 35 cents and 40 cents .
the price of ethylene , the chemical building block of polyethylene , meanwhile , have n't dropped nearly so fast .
quantum that discrepancy hurt badly , because only about half of its ethylene needs its own plants cover .
by many accounts , an early hint of a price rout in the making came at the start of this year .
them china , which huge orders for polyethylene , had been putting in abruptly halted .
that excess polyethylene would soon be sloshing around the world , calculating that prices had peaked other buyers then bet and so inventories to draw down rather than new product order began .
inventories how much had swelled throughout the distribution chain as prices spiraled up to learn producers was surprised kenneth mitchell , director of dow 's polyethylene business , say .
`` bags , people was even hoarding '' he say .
bottom prices have hit producers now hope .
increases of a few cents a pound effect to take in the next several weeks they recently announced .
whether the new posted prices will stick once to haggle producers and customers start no one know however , , .
one doubter is george krug , a chemical-industry analyst at oppenheimer & co. and a bear on plastics stocks .
others ' estimates of price increases when can be sustained , noting `` some say october he remark , .
1992 i say '' .
that efforts prices to firm up will be undermined by producers ' plans production capacity to expand he argue .
a quick turnaround is crucial to quantum because heavy its cash requirements remain .
a three-year , $ 1.3 billion plant-expansion program started this year to carry out the company is trying .
at the same time , its annual payments on long-term debt will more than double from a year ago to about $ 240 million , largely because of debt a $ 50-a-share special dividend to pay earlier this year taken on .
the payout quantum described at the time as a way for the bonanza it to share with its holders , because the huge profit increases its stock price was n't reflecting .
the payment some analysts saw as an effort takeover speculation also to dispel .
whether the company its quarterly dividend , 36 % raised only a year ago , to 75 cents a share to cut a cash crunch might eventually force a topic of intense speculation has become on wall street since dividend questions mr. stookey deflected in a sept. 29 meeting with analysts .
his response -- that the dividend company directors review regularly -- some viewed as nothing more than the standard line from executives .
but something less than his usual straight-from-the-shoulder performance he had given thinking others came away .
in any case , on the day of the meeting , $ 2.625 quantum 's shares slid to $ 36.625 in big board trading .
on top of everything else , a disaster at its plant in morris , ill quantum confront .
after the plant an explosion idled in june , the company progressed in september to within 12 hours of the drawn-out process of it restarting completing .
a second explosion then occurred .
two workers died and six remain in the hospital .
the most painful dimension yet this human toll add to the sudden change in quantum 's fortunes .
until this year , its accident rate the company had been steadily lowering and trade-group safety awards picking up .
another imponderable a prolonged production halt at the plant could introduce into quantum 's financial future .
demand , to meet a plant when have just been running flat out lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance calculating is straightforward .
but trickier -- and subject to dickering between insured and insurer -- the numbers become demand when is shifting .
`` x percent of this product and y percent of that , you could have sold you say '' theodore semegran , an analyst at shearson lehman hutton who went through this exercise during his former career as a chemical engineer recall .
full operation the morris plant , limited production where got under way last week , will resume by year 's end quantum hope .
the plant usually account for 20 % to 25 % of quantum 's polyethylene production and 50 % of its ethylene production .
grim not everything look for quantum .
the company 's sway in the polyethylene business , market share where is often taken through sheer capacity the plant expansion should strengthen .
by ethylene production , lifting the company 's raw material costs the expansion will also lower .
its grip on its one large business outside chemicals , propane marketing quantum is also tightening .
through a venture with its investment banker , first boston corp. , an acquisition of petrolane inc. quantum completed in august in a transaction valued at $ 1.18 billion .
petrolane is the second-largest propane distributor in the u.s. .
a crisis to get past quantum still , have right now .
a suitor the weakening stock may yet attract some analysts speculate .
the name surfacing in rumors is british petroleum co. , which its polyethylene business in the u.s. to expand is looking .
asked about a bid for quantum , a bp spokesman say , `` a policy of not commenting on rumors , we pretty much have and that fall in that category i think .
its division responsible for network advertising time , buying rjr nabisco inc. is disbanding just a month after 11 of the group 's 14 employees moving to new york from atlanta .
that the rjr nabisco broadcast unit , it is shutting down and its 14 employees , dismissing in a move money to save a spokesman for the new york-based food and tobacco giant , private taken earlier this year in a $ 25 billion leveraged buy-out by kohlberg kravis roberts & co. , confirmed .
its network-buying plans rjr is discussing with its two main advertising firms , fcb/leber katz and mccann erickson the spokesman said .
`` that just as good a job an ad agency could do at significantly lower cost , we found with the size of our media purchases '' the spokesman , who rjr how much spend on network television time to specify declined said .
about $ 140 million rjr is spending down from roughly $ 200 million last year on network television time this year , an executive close to the company said .
the spokesman said the broadcast unit will be disbanded dec. 1 , and rjr 's print , radio and spot-television buying practices the move wo n't affect .
the broadcast group had been based in new york until it rjr 's previous management a year ago , when moved to atlanta , the company 's headquarters before this summer .
11 employees of the group rjr moved back to new york in september because `` to be a future there was supposed '' one employee with the group said .
three more buyers the company hired for the unit within the past two weeks , them wooing from jobs with advertising agencies he said .
the 11 employees the company moved to new york last month because the group had then been in the midst of ad time for the networks ' upcoming season purchasing the rjr spokesman said .
`` the studies -lcb- on the unit closing -rcb- could n't be completed until now , '' he said .
the group 's president , peter chrisanthopoulos , was n't in his office friday afternoon to comment .
a larger share of its steel market the u.s. , which its steel-import quotas , is finalizing to developing and newly industrialized countries which relatively unsubsidized steel industries have is allocating .
a significant cut in japan 's steel quota , the u.s. meanwhile , have negotiated and only a minor increase to the steel allotment for the european community made .
a somewhat bigger share of the u.s. market than it under the previous five-year steel quotas , which expired sept. 30 had to negotiate brazil , similar to mexico and south korea , is expected .
brazil and venezuela is the only two countries that steel talks with the u.s. for the year ending oct. 1 , 1990 have n't completed .
in recent years , about 80 % of the 100 million tons of steel used annually by the nation u.s. steelmakers have supplied .
of the remaining 20 % needed , about 15 % the steel-quota negotiations allocate to foreign suppliers , with the difference mainly by canada -- which is n't included in the quota program supplied .
steel other countries that formal steel quotas with the u.s. , do n't have such as taiwan , sweden and argentina , also have supplied .
earlier this year steel quotas , known as voluntary restraint agreements , it would extend until march 31 , 1992 the bush administration said .
that two-and-a-half year period it would use to work toward an international consensus on the international steel trade , which has been notoriously managed , subsidized and protected by governments freeing up it also said .
its plan , a `` trade liberalization program , '' the u.s. termed despite the fact that it is merely an extension .
its quota mexico , which was one of the first countries its steel talks with the u.s. , to conclude virtually doubled to 0.95 % of the u.s. steel market from 0.48 % under the previous quotas .
a small increase to about 1.95 % to get south korea , which 1.9 % had under the previous quotas , is set .
that increase rise to slightly more than 2 % of the u.s. market if a joint korean-u.s. steel project is included .
its allowance to increase from the 1.43 % share it have had in recent years brazil meanwhile , is expected .
their quotas the ec and japan -- the u.s. 's largest steel suppliers -- have n't been filling to the full extent .
about 5 % of the u.s. market compared with recent quotas of about 6.7 % the ec steel industry , which has been coping with strong european demand , have been supplying .
steel about 4.5 % of the u.s. market compared with a quota of 5.9 % to total japan have been shipping .
in the recent talks , about 300,000 tons , its quota increased to 7 % of the u.s. market from 6.7 % in 1988 the ec had .
its quota to cut to about 5 % from 5.9 % previously japan , however , have agreed .
about 80 % of the steel imported to the u.s. under the quota program japan , the ec , brazil , mexico and south korea provide .
the balance is supplied by a host of smaller exporters , such as australia and venezuela .
about an extra 2 % of the domestic steel market to give to foreign suppliers in its quota talks the u.s. had .
that was essentially made up of a 1 % increase in the overall quota program and 1 % from japan 's allowance cutting .
these quota negotiations negotiators from the white house trade office will repeat next year another 1 % of the u.s. steel market to allocate they when will have .
leverage with foreign steel suppliers them subsidies and protectionism to withdraw from their own steel industries to get to try to give its negotiators these optional 1%-a-year increases to the steel quota program is built into the bush administration 's steel-quota program .
fiscal second-quarter earnings 1988 results , to trail elcotel inc. expect but that several new products will lead to a `` much stronger '' performance in its second half anticipate .
net income of $ 272,000 , or five cents a share , elcotel , a telecommunications company , had in its year-earlier second quarter , ended sept. 30 .
$ 5 million revenue totaled .
that earnings in the most recent quarter will be about two cents a share on revenue of just under $ 4 million george pierce , chairman and chief executive officer , said in an interview .
mr. pierce said , a 12-month decline in industry sales of privately owned pay telephones , elcotel 's primary business the lower results , reflect .
although that line of business to strengthen in the next year , mr. pierce expect elcotel will also benefit from moving into other areas he said .
foremost among those the company 's entrance into the public facsimile business , is mr. pierce said .
within the next year , 10,000 fax machines , made by minolta in japan , to place in hotels , municipal buildings , drugstores and other public settings around the country elcotel expect .
a credit-card reader for billing data the machines to collect , store and forward elcotel will provide .
a minimum of $ 10 of recurring net earnings elcotel should realize for each machine each month mr. pierce said .
an automatic call processor that further use will make of the company 's system for credit-card calls and collect calls automating and handling elcotel have also developed .
that system automatic call processors will provide for virtually any telephone , mr. pierce said , not just phones produced by elcotel .
a new line of convenience telephones , which coins , do n't accept for use in hotel lobbies , office lobbies , hospitality lounges and similar settings the company will also be producing .
that about $ 5 of recurring net earnings the processors and convenience phones would produce for each machine each month mr. pierce estimated .
0.7 % britain 's retail price index rose in september from august and was up 7.6 % for the year , the central statistical office said .
a shareholders ' rights plan in which rights shares of common stock to purchase will be distributed as a dividend to shareholders of record as of oct. 23 it adopted quest medical inc. said .
the plan was n't adopted in response to any known offers for quest , a maker and marketer of hospital products the company said .
shareholders quest stock to purchase at a discount if more than 15 % of the company 's common stock any person or group acquire or a tender offer announce the rights allow .
measuring cups may soon be replaced by tablespoons in the laundry room .
a superconcentrated detergent that only a few spoonfuls per washload will require testing next month to begin procter & gamble co. plan .
the move stem from lessons learned in japan phenomenal success local competitors where have had with concentrated soapsuds .
p&g 's growing concern that their superconcentrates its japanese rivals , such as kao corp. , may bring to the u.s. it also mark .
the cincinnati consumer-products giant got clobbered two years ago in japan a powerful detergent , attack , called which a 30 % stake in the japanese markets quickly won kao when introduced .
`` to get caught again , they do n't want '' one industry watcher say .
p&g 's new powdered detergent -- cheer with color guard to be called -- will be on shelves in that market by early november retailers in phoenix , ariz. , say .
that shipments to phoenix started late last month a p&g spokeswoman confirmed .
results from this market the company will study before expanding to others she said .
superconcentrates is n't entirely new for p&g .
a superconcentrated lemon cheer the company introduced in japan after the success of attack watching .
the shelves attack when hit in 1987 , p&g 's share of the japanese market fell to about 8 % from more than 20 % .
with the help of lemon cheer , to be 12 % p&g 's share is now estimated .
while the compact packaging and convenience of concentrated products , the japanese have embraced the true test for p&g will be in the $ 4 billion u.s. detergent market , where growth is slow and prominence over powders liquids have gained .
the product to market under the cheer name the company may have chosen since its best-selling tide it be already expanded into 16 different varieties , including this year 's big hit , tide with bleach .
with superconcentrates , however , it is n't always easy consumers to persuade that less is more ; too much detergent to dump into the washing machine , that a cup of powder it take the laundry to really clean believing many people tend .
in the early 1980s , a concentrated detergent to launch here under the ariel brand name that it market in europe p&g tried .
but the product , which was n't as concentrated as the new cheer , bombed in a market test in denver and was dropped .
consumers to hook on detergent and fabric softener combinations in pouches , p&g and others also have tried repeatedly but they have n't sold well , despite the convenience .
but p&g the new cheer is a unique formula that an ingredient that colors prevent from fading also offer contend .
and the product , to embrace retailers is expected in part because less shelf space it will take up .
`` when shelf space was cheap , bigger was better , '' hugh zurkuhlen , an analyst at salomon bros say .
but with so many brands vying for space , that be no longer the case .
if the new cheer sell well , the trend toward smaller packaging is likely to accelerate as competitors follow with their own superconcentrates .
`` the -lcb- less-established -rcb- brands retailers then will probably push out altogether , '' he say .
competition is bound tougher to get if a product like attack kao introduce in the u.s. .
to be sure , an easy time u.s. market share taking away from the mighty p&g , which about 23 % of the market have kao would n't have .
they is interested in detergents selling in the u.s. , kao officials previously have said but the company so far have focused on acquisitions , such as last year 's purchase of andrew jergens co. , a cincinnati hand-lotion maker .
a product-testing facility it also have in california .
p&g 's interest in a superconcentrated detergent go beyond the concern for the japanese some believe .
`` this is something p&g would do with or without kao , '' mr. zurkuhlen say .
with economic tension between the u.s. and japan worsening , last week 's visit from u.s. trade representative carla hills many japanese had feared .
a new barrage of demands that something japan do quickly its trade surplus with the u.s. to reduce they expected .
a discussion of the need for the u.s. and japan to work together and of the importance of the long-term view they instead , got .
a completely different tone from last month 's visit by commerce secretary robert a. mosbacher mrs. hills ' first trip to japan as america 's chief trade negotiator had .
mr. mosbacher called for concrete results by next spring in negotiations over fundamental japanese business practices that free trade supposedly inhibit .
such results should be `` measurable in dollars and cents '' in the u.s. trade deficit with japan reducing he said .
but speaking at a breakfast meeting of the american chamber of commerce in japan on saturday , that `` definitive action to get by spring or summer , the objective is not a blueprint for action to have it is rather '' mrs. hills , stressed .
that `` a down payment ... some small step the american people and the japanese people that we be moving in earnest to convince perhaps to have '' she expected she added .
clear such remarks how translate into policy wo n't become for months .
several theories for the difference in approach betwen mr. mosbacher and mrs. hills american and japanese officials offered .
the rhetoric on both sides is getting out of hand the bush administration may feel others said .
and the growing debate in washington over free trade with japan versus some kind of managed trade pursuing it reflected some said .
her visit to compare to mr. mosbacher 's , asked mrs. hills replied : `` every word he spoke , i did n't hear but as a general proposition , a very consistent trade strategy we have in the bush administration i think '' .
often her tone was surprisingly `` conciliatory '' more than one american official who sat in with her during three days of talks with japanese officials yet said .
`` my line has been very consistent , i think '' mrs. hills said at a news conference saturday afternoon .
`` i be painted sometimes as ferocious , because a ferocious list of statutes to implement i perhaps have .
very ferocious i do n't feel .
either hard or soft i do n't feel .
committed to the program of markets opening and trade expanding i feel '' .
the local press she when met for the first time on friday , the need for progress in barriers to trade in forest products , satellites and supercomputers , three areas targeted under the super 301 provision of the 1988 trade bill removing mrs. hills firmly reiterated .
exclusionary business practices that the u.s. government have identified she highlighted .
but the importance of world-wide free trade and open competition to promote her main thrust was .
the trade imbalance was mainly due to macroeconomic factors and should n't be tackled by quantitative targets setting she said .
at her news conference for japanese reporters , the japanese sense of relief one economics journalist summed up .
`` that you would be a scary old lady , my impression was '' a few nervous chuckles drawing from his colleagues he said , .
mrs. hills ' remarks did raise questions , at least among some u.s. officials , about what exactly her stance is on u.s. access to the japanese semiconductor market .
a 1986 agreement many americans have interpreted as a 20 % share by 1991 , assuring u.s. companies but any such promise making the japanese have denied .
at one of her news conferences , `` we can do much better than 20 % i believe '' mrs. hills said , .
but `` i am against managed trade she stressed , .
i into an agreement that stipulate to a percentage of the market will not enter .
a net loss for the fourth quarter that ended june 30 to report it expect and new financing is seeking traditional industries inc. said .
a number of financing alternatives , including increases in its credit lines seeking it is considering the seller of photographic products and services said .
the amount of the loss to estimate traditional declined and would n't say if a profit for the year to show it expect .
in the year ended june 30 , 1988 , net income of $ 4.9 million , or $ 1.21 a share traditional reported .
its fourth-quarter results the company did n't break out .
in the latest nine months net income was $ 4.7 million , or $ 1.31 a share , on revenue of $ 44.3 million .
a delayed fiscal-year report it would file with the securities and exchange commission `` within approximately 45 days '' the company separately , said .
the delay resulted from difficulties in its accounting of a settlement with the federal trade commission resolving it said .
under an agreement filed in federal court in august ftc objections to some traditional sales practices , to settle a $ 250,000 trust fund refunds to provide to certain customers it would establish traditional said .
it was sued by a buyer of its computerized newspaper-publishing system , that deficiencies in the system to correct the company failed alleging information international inc. said .
restitution of the system 's about $ 3 million purchase price and cancellation of a software license provided by the morris units to information international the lawsuit by two units of morris communications corp. seek for alleged failure royalties to pay a spokesman for information international said .
that filed in federal court in georgia , the complaints , is without merit it believe information international said .
closely held morris communications is based in augusta , ga .
the units that the suit filed is southeastern newspapers corp. and florida publishing co .
the sale of its a. sulka & co. subsidiary , a men 's luxury haberdashery , to luxco investments syms corp. completed .
terms was n't disclosed .
`` as syms 's core business of off-price retailing grow , a difficult distraction , a small subsidiary that is operationally unrelated become '' marcy syms , president of the parent , said in a statement .
a total of seven stores sulka operate in the u.s. and overseas a spokeswoman said .
25 off-price apparel stores syms operate in the u.s. .
the oil industry 's middling profits could persist through the rest of the year .
in the next few days much less robust earnings than they did for the third quarter a year ago , largely reflecting deteriorating chemical prices and gasoline profitability to report major oil companies is expected .
the gasoline picture may improve this quarter , but chemicals is likely weak , chances that their year-earlier performance profits could equal reducing to remain industry executives and analysts say , .
`` a softening somewhat in volume and certainly in price in petrochemicals , the industry is seeing '' glenn cox , president of phillips petroleum co. , said in an interview .
`` third and fourth quarter earnings for the industry in general , that change will obviously impact '' he added .
phillips 's results he did n't forecast .
but phillips will be among the companies hard-hit by weak chemical prices and a drop in third-quarter earnings will probably post securities analysts say .
so , too , many analysts predict , will exxon corp. , chevron corp. and amoco corp .
13 % it have plunged since july to around 26 cents a pound .
peaking at about 34 cents last december ethylene a year ago sold for 33 cents , .
a big reason for the chemical price retreat is overexpansion .
beginning in mid-1987 , accelerating prices began as demand a growing u.s. economy and the weak dollar spurred .
capacity companies added furiously .
now , greatly increased supplies is on the market , while the dollar is stronger , and domestic economic growth is slower .
third-quarter profits from gasoline was weaker .
`` refining margins was so good in the third quarter of last year and generally not very good this year , '' william randol , a securities analyst at first boston corp said .
for a robust holiday driving season in july and august that did n't materialize to prepare oil company refineries ran flat out .
gasoline prices the excess supply pushed down in that period .
in addition , profitability further pressuring crude oil prices was up some from a year earlier , .
margins picked up in september , refiners say and gasoline profits will rebound this quarter , though still not to the level of 1988 's fourth quarter many industry officials believe .
during the 1988 second half , record gasoline and chemical profits many companies posted .
to be the most surprising element of companies ' earnings this year crude oil production may turn out .
-- averaging roughly $ 2 a barrel higher in the third quarter than a year earlier -- prices have stayed well above most companies ' expectations .
demand has been much stronger than anticipated , and it typically accelerate in the fourth quarter .
`` higher oil prices we could see this year , '' bryan jacoboski , an analyst at painewebber inc said .
that will translate into sharply higher production profits , particularly compared with last year oil prices when steadily fell to below $ 13 a barrel in the fourth quarter .
in the third quarter , about 5 % less than they were in 1988 they averaged .
weather the main reason remain .
last summer was notable for a heat wave and drought that utilities more natural gas to burn increased electrical demand from air conditioning use to feed caused .
on the other hand , milder weather than usual this summer , had .
`` we 've been very disappointed in the performance of natural gas prices , '' mr. cox , phillips 's president said .
`` fourth quarter performance to assist as many had expected the lagging gas price is not going '' .
going into the fourth quarter , natural gas prices is anywhere from 8 % to 17 % lower than a year earlier .
for instance , natural gas currently produced along the gulf coast is selling down 13 % from $ 1.69 a thousand cubic feet a year ago on the spot market for around $ 1.47 a thousand cubic feet , .
to blunt growing demands from western europe for a relaxation of controls on exports to the soviet bloc , trying whether militarily valuable technology italy 's ing . c. olivetti & co. supplied to the soviets the bush administration , is questioning .
to argue for more liberal export rules at a meeting to be held in paris oct. 25 and 26 most of the western european members of coordinating committee on multilateral export controls , the unofficial forum through which their export-control policies , the u.s. and its allies align are expected .
to press specifically for a relaxation of rules exports of machine tools , computers and other high-technology products governing they plan .
but evidence that all cocom members is complying fully with existing export-control procedures to see before further liberalization it will support it want the bush administration say .
its point , to make the italian government it is challenging reports that the soviet union olivetti with sophisticated computer-driven devices that parts for combat aircraft to build could be used may have supplied to explain .
a u.s. intelligence report the london sunday times , which the u.s. concerns , first reported cited as the source of the allegations that $ 25 million in `` embargoed , state-of-the-art , flexible manufacturing systems '' olivetti exported to the soviet aviation industry .
these tools shipping olivetti reportedly began in 1984 .
that the allegations the u.s. is discussing with the italian government and cocom , a state department spokesman acknowledged but any details to confirm declined .
a quick investigation into whether cocom rules olivetti broke italian president francesco cossiga promised .
his attention president bush called to the matter during the italian leader 's visit here last week .
that cocom rules , it violated that the reported shipments was properly licensed by the italian authorities asserting olivetti have denied .
although the legality of these sales is still an open question , the position of export-control hawks in the pentagon and the intelligence community to support the disclosure could n't be better timed .
`` that a story like this break just before every important cocom meeting , it seem to me '' a washington lobbyist for a number of u.s. computer companies said .
conflicting signals about its export-control policies , the bush administration have sent unhealed divisions among several competing agencies reflecting .
last summer , the administration mr. bush moved in the direction of gradual liberalization a north atlantic treaty organization meeting that some exceptions to the cocom embargo of strategic goods he would allow he when told .
but the pentagon and the commerce department more recently , openly feuded over the extent to which exports of personal computers to the bloc cocom should liberalize .
that the west should be cautious about any further liberalization these agencies however , generally agree .
`` no evidence that the soviet program ( illegally ) western technology to acquire have diminished , there be '' a state department spokesman said .
warrants on shares of hong kong telecommunications ltd it will issue salomon brothers international ltd. , a british subsidiary of salomon inc. , announced .
a similar offer by salomon of warrants for shares of hongkong & shanghai banking corp the move closely follow .
the 50 million warrants will be priced at hk$ 1.25 each and a premium to the share price of about 26 % to carry are expected .
in trading on the stock exchange of hong kong , the shares closed wednesday at hk$ 4.80 each .
at this price , to rise above hk$ 6.05 for their warrants subscribers to salomon 's issue to profitably convert the shares would have .
while in the past warrants on their own shares , hong kong companies have issued salomon 's warrants is the first here to be issued by a third party .
`` the warrants salomon will cover '' by sufficient shares , or options to purchase shares , its entire position to cover buying .
warrants for hong kong stocks is attractive because an opportunity shares to buy without too great a risk taking they give foreign investors , wary of volatility in the colony 's stock market , bankers said .
the hong kong telecommunications warrants should be attractive to buyers in europe , the bankers added , because the group is one of a handful of blue-chip stocks on the hong kong market that international appeal have .
suit financial corp. of santa barbara filed against former stock speculator ivan f. boesky and drexel burnham lambert inc. , the thrift they defrauded by their relationship concealing it $ 284 million in high-yield , high-risk junk bonds to buy when persuading charging .
in a suit filed in federal court thursday , that a `` disproportionate number '' of the bonds it purchased in 1984 declined in value the s&l alleged .
the bonds , financial corp. purchased the suit alleged , after an agreement for a 51 % stake in the thrift vagabond hotels to purchase for about $ 34 million mr. boesky and drexel negotiated .
vagabond hotels by mr. boesky , who a prison term currently is serving for securities violations was controlled .
the suit they had n't seen and thus could n't comment officials at drexel said .
in addition to $ 33 million compensatory damages , $ 100 million in punitive damages the suit seek .
ivan f. boesky corp. and northview corp. , the successor company to vagabonds hotels also named is in the suit .
northview officials could n't be located .
the bonds to buy it agreed after it a representative of ivan f. boesky corp. visited in november 1983 and its financial condition financial corp. could improve by the bonds purchasing said financial corp. said .
shortly before the visit , mr. boesky and drexel representives had met with financial corp. officials and a letter of intent the 51 % stake in the company to acquire had signed .
the agreement however , was canceled in june 1984 .
the bonds financial corp. purchased in at least 70 different transactions in 1984 and since then $ 11 million in losses has realized on them , the company said .
an agreement in principle calling for its north american cement holdings hofi north america inc. in a transaction that ideal 's minority shareholders will leave with 12.8 % of the combined company to combine with ideal its directors reached ideal basic industries inc. said .
its 100 % stake in st. lawrence cement inc. and its 60 % stake in dundee cement co. combining with its 67 % stake in ideal hofi , the north american holding company of swiss concern holderbank financiere glaris ltd. , previously proposed .
but about 10 % of the combined company hofi 's first offer would have given ideal 's other shareholders .
that offer , ideal 's directors rejected although the merger proposal they endorsed they said .
under the agreement , 87.2 % of the combined company hofi will own .
about 39.2 % of the combined company ideal 's current operations will represent .
the transaction is subject to a definitive agreement and approval by ideal shareholders .
the transaction to complete early next year it expect ideal said .
while corn and soybean prices have slumped well below their drought-induced peaks of 1988 , stubbornly high wheat prices remain .
and they be likely that way to stay for months to come , analysts say .
for one thing , with more winter wheat many farmers even planting this year than last , tight wheat supplies is likely prices to support well into 1990 , the analysts say .
and if rain do n't fall soon across many of the great plains ' wheat-growing areas , supplies further squeezing yields in the crop now being planted could be reduced , .
prices expectations that substantial buying orders the soviet union will place over the next few months also supporting is .
by next may 31 , to drop to 443 million bushels stocks of u.s. wheat to be carried over into the next season -- before the winter wheat now being planted is harvested -- is projected .
stocks was 698 million bushels on may 31 of this year .
in response to dwindling domestic supplies , last month the number of acres farmers can plant in wheat for next year and still qualify for federal support payments the u.s. government would slightly increase agriculture secretary clayton yeutter said .
that production next year the new plan will boost by about 66 million bushels the government estimate .
production for next year it now estimate at just under 2.6 billion bushels , compared with this year 's estimated 2.04 billion and a drought-stunted 1.81 billion in 1988 .
but the full effect on prices of the winter wheat now being planted wo n't be felt until the second half of next year .
until then , limited stocks is likely prices to keep near the $ 4-a-bushel level , analysts say .
on the chicago board of trade friday , wheat for december delivery settled at $ 4.0675 a bushel , unchanged .
in theory at least , the wheat futures market susceptible to a supply-demand squeeze , tight supplies next spring could leave daniel basse , a futures analyst with agresource co. in chicago said .
havoc , such a situation can wreak as by the emergency that developed in soybean futures trading this summer on the chicago board of trade was shown .
in july , ferruzzi finanziaria s.p . a. futures positions equal to about 23 million bushels of soybeans to liquidate the cbot ordered .
that some members would n't be able enough soybeans to deliver to find and to default on their contractual obligation to the italian conglomerate , which requests its holdings to reduce had refused would have it feared the exchange said .
the soybean futures market to manipulate it was trying ferruzzi have denied .
the yield from this season 's winter wheat crop , to reduce unseasonably hot , dry weather across large portions of the great plains and in wheat-growing areas in washington and oregon is threatening conrad leslie , a futures analyst and head of leslie analytical in chicago said .
for example , in the oklahoma panhandle , 40 % or more of the topsoil is short of moisture .
that figure climb to about 47 % in wheat-growing portions of kansas , he said .
any clear indication of its wheat purchase plans , the soviet union have n't given but moscow sizable orders for u.s. wheat to place in the next few months , prices further supporting many analysts expect .
`` wheat prices will increasingly pivot off of soviet demand '' in coming weeks , richard feltes , vice president , research , for refco inc. in chicago predicted .
to see the price decline that began friday how long and how far will go orange juice traders will be watching .
thursday , after the close of trading , what would normally have been a bullish u.s. department of agriculture estimate of the 1989-90 florida orange crop the market late received .
it was near the low range of estimates , at 130 million 90-pound boxes , compared with 146.6 million boxes last season .
as expected , brazil however , waited for the crop estimate to come out and the export price of its juice concentrate then cut to about $ 1.34 a pound from around $ 1.55 .
whatever supportive effect the u.s. report might have had friday 's consequent selling of futures contracts erased and the november orange juice contract sent down as much as 6.55 cents a pound at one time .
it settled with a loss of 4.95 cents at $ 1.3210 a pound .
after a delay caused by drought at the start of its crop season , to arrive in the u.s. in large quantities brazilian juice , is beginning .
demand for its product , which to be in plentiful supply is going to stimulate brazil want .
one analyst said , to be aimed even more at europe , consumption of brazilian juice where have fallen the price cut , appeared .
it be a dollar-priced product , and it more expensive in europe , the strong dollar have made the analyst said .
new york futures prices have dropped significantly from more than $ 2 a pound at midyear .
barring a cold snap or other crop problems in the growing areas , downward pressure on prices is likely to continue into january , their peak , harvesting and processing of oranges in florida when reach the analyst said .
although some analysts look for profit-taking in the wake of friday 's leap in crude oil prices , to continue this week last week 's rally is generally expected .
`` to look for a stable crude market , at least in futures trading , i would continue '' william hinton , an energy futures broker with stotler & co said .
a week of steadily rising crude oil prices in both futures and spot markets friday capped .
on the new york mercantile exchange , west texas intermediate crude for november delivery finished up 42 cents on the day at $ 20.89 a barrel , .
on european markets , spot prices of north sea crudes meanwhile , was up 35 to 75 cents a barrel .
`` to go higher , this market still want '' nauman barakat , a first vice president at shearson lehman hutton inc said .
that $ 21.50 a barrel or more the november contract will reach on the new york mercantile exchange he predicted .
a lack of bearish developments as well as rumors of a possible tightening of supplies of some fuels and crudes analysts generally cite .
recurring reports that difficulties the soviet union is having with its oil exports and that its production limit nigeria have about reached and as much as it could sell ca n't produce there also is .
a tightening of near-term supplies , particularly of high-quality crudes such as those produced in the north sea and in nigeria many traders foresee .
if a hostile predator emerge for saatchi & saatchi co. , a management buy-out attempt , co-founders charles and maurice saatchi will lead an official close to the company said .
last week , it had been approached by one or more third parties interested in a possible restructuring saatchi 's largest shareholder , southeastern asset management , said .
and a management buy-out of the company , to lead he had offered but was rebuffed by charles saatchi carl spielvogel , chief executive officer of saatchi 's big backer spielvogel bates advertising unit , said .
a hostile bid he would n't launch mr. spielvogel said .
that `` if a bidder came up with a ludicrously high offer , a crazy offer which it could n't beat , saatchi knew no choice but it to recommend to shareholders it would have the executive close to saatchi & saatchi said .
but -lcb- otherwise -rcb- it would undoubtedly come back '' with an offer by management .
any buy-out would be led by the current board , whose chairman is maurice saatchi and to be charles saatchi whose strategic guiding force is believed the executive said .
mr. spielvogel is n't part of the board , nor any of the other heads of saatchi 's big u.s.-based ad agencies are .
any price , the executive did n't name but upward of $ 1.3 billion saatchi would fetch securities analysts have said .
speculation that the new chief executive officer saatchi was bringing in the company only to clean up financially so that a buy-back the brothers could lead the executive denied .
that speculation abounded friday as the appointment of the new chief executive , robert louis-dreyfus , who saatchi join and a member of its board become on jan. 1 industry executives analyzed .
a reputation as a savvy financial manager , mr. louis-dreyfus , formerly chief executive of the pharmaceutical research firm ims international inc. , have and will be charged with saatchi 's poor financial state largely repairing .
asked about the speculation that the way to pave for a buy-out by the brothers , mr. louis-dreyfus have been hired `` that is n't the reason dreyfus have been brought in the executive replied , .
the company to turn around he was brought in '' .
little affect on them the company 's management shakeup will have they believe several saatchi agency clients separately , said .
`` any impact on us , it have n't had nor it to , we do expect '' a spokeswoman for miller brewing co. , a major client of backer spielvogel said .
`` no problem with the announcement , we have because what change to bring about it be going we do n't know john lampe , director of advertising at painewebber inc. , a saatchi & saatchi advertising client , said : .
agencies to change because of a change in london we is n't going '' .
no effect they saw executives at backer spielvogel client avis inc. , as well as at saatchi client philips lighting co. , also said .
comment executives at prudential-bache securities inc. , a backer spielvogel client that its account , is reviewing declined .
that either a management buy-out and restructuring , or a buy-out of backer spielvogel alone , led by him to finance prudential-bache was prepared mr. spielvogel had said .
its $ 12 million to $ 15 million account california 's glendale federal bank awarded to the los angeles office of omnicom group 's bbdo agency .
the account was previously handled by davis , ball & colombatto advertising inc. , a los angeles agency .
its relationship with the boston office of hill , holliday , connors , cosmopulos royal crown cola co. have ended .
about $ 6 million the account had billed in 1988 , according to leading national advertisers .
as expected , not guilty young & rubicam inc. along with two senior executives and a former employee , pleaded in federal court in new haven , conn. , to conspiracy and racketeering charges .
that jamaican officials they bribed the jamaica tourist board ad account to win in 1981 the government have charged .
`` extradition proceedings is just beginning '' for the other two defendants in the case , eric anthony abrahams , former jamaican tourism minister , and jamaican businessman arnold foote jr a spokesman for the u.s. attorney 's office said .
a joint venture advertising agency to establish in south korea the samsung group and bozell inc. agreed .
bozell cheil corp. , as the new agency will be called , will be based in seoul and 70 % is owned by samsung and 30 % owned by bozell .
korea first advertising co. , that country 's largest agency samsung already own .
backer spielvogel bates and ogilvy group bozell join as u.s. agencies with interests in korean agencies .
a payment from a supplier and strong sales of certain data-storage products , citing earnings and revenue jumped in its second quarter ended sept. 24 maxtor corp. said .
net income rose to $ 4.8 million , or 23 cents a share , from year-earlier net of $ 1.1 million , or five cents a share the maker of computer-data-storage products said .
revenue soared to $ 117 million from $ 81.5 million .
its results was boosted by $ 2 million in payments received from a supplier , for a certain line of products that to sell anymore maxtor is n't going maxtor said .
a positive effect on future earnings and revenue effects from the line discontinuing may have maxtor said .
a spokeswoman would n't elaborate , but the discontinued product has never been a major source of revenue or profit the company said .
maxtor operationally , benefited from robust sales of products that data store for high-end personal computers and computer workstations .
in the fiscal first half , net was $ 7 million , or 34 cents a share , up from the year-earlier $ 3.1 million , or 15 cents a share .
revenue rose to $ 225.5 million from $ 161.8 million .
a director of this provider of advanced technology systems and services , the board increasing to eight members robert g. walden , 62 years old , was elected .
he retired as senior vice president , finance and administration , and chief financial officer of the company oct. 1 .
that part of its 10-k report it filed with the securities and exchange commission , but that its audited financial statements and related information the filing do n't include southmark corp. said .
operating under bankruptcy-law proceedings , the sec financial statements it could n't provide by the end of its first extension `` without unreasonable burden or expense '' it told the real estate and thrift concern , said .
the company asked for a 15-day extension sept. 30 , when the financial reports was due .
its 10k to amend as soon as its audit is completed financial results to provide it plan southmark said .
chairman of this processor of prescription claims , thomas w. field jr. , 55 , who resigned last month succeeding alan seelenfreund , 52 years old , was named .
mr. seelenfreund is executive vice president and chief financial officer of mckesson and will continue in those roles .
rex r. malson , 57 , executive vice president at mckesson , pcs also named as a director , the seat vacated by mr. field filling .
messrs. malson and seelenfreund is directors of mckesson , which an 86 % stake in pcs have .
that a challenge by medchem to the validity of a u.s. patent held by pharmacia inc. was `` without merit '' a u.s. district court in boston ruled medchem products inc. said .
that medchem 's amvisc product line infringe on the pharmacia patent pharmacia , based in upsala , sweden , had charged in a lawsuit against medchem .
the patent is related to hyaluronic acid , a rooster-comb extract used in eye surgery .
in its lawsuit , unspecified damages and a preliminary injunction medchem to block from the amvisc products selling pharmacia is seeking .
about a third of medchem 's sales and 10 % to 20 % of its earnings the products contribute a medchem spokesman said .
in the year ended aug. 31 , 1988 , $ 2.9 million , or 72 cents a share , medchem earned on sales of $ 17.4 million .
the court 's ruling was issued as part of a `` first-phase trial '' in the patent-infringement proceedings and only one of its defenses in the case concern medchem said .
`` all of its options '' it is considering in light of the decision , including a possible appeal it said .
that `` its other defenses against pharmacia 's lawsuit , including the claim that it have n't infringed on pharmacia 's patent to assert '' it plan the medical-products company added .
that a conference the court scheduled for next monday -- a date for proceedings on pharmacia 's motion for a preliminary injunction to set medchem said .
mixed third-quarter results , aided by favorable newsprint prices and hampered by flat or declining advertising linage , especially in the northeast newspaper publishers is reporting .
adding to unsteadiness in the industry , seasonal retail ad spending patterns in newspapers have been upset by shifts in ownership and general hardships within the retail industry .
in new york , the bonwit teller and b. altman & co. department stores have filed for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code , while the r.h. macy & co. , bloomingdale 's and saks fifth avenue department-store chains is for sale .
many papers throughout the country is also faced with a slowdown in classified-ad spending , a booming category for newspapers in recent years .
until recently , decreases in retail ad spending had bottomed out and in fact would increase in this year 's third and fourth quarters industry analysts believed .
all bets is off , analysts say , because of the shifting ownership of the retail chains .
`` weakness in linage , offset improved paper prices will help but the amount of ad linage they usually run , the retailers ' problems have affected '' edward j. atorino , industry analyst for salomon brothers inc said .
`` retailers is just in disarray . ''
for instance , an 11 % gain in net income , gannett co. posted as total ad pages dropped at usa today , but advertising revenue rose because of a higher circulation rate base and increased rates .
a 3 % increase in advertising and circulation revenue gannett 's 83 daily and 35 non-daily newspapers reported .
total advertising linage was `` modestly '' lower as classified-ad volume increased , while `` softer demand '' for retail and national ad linage , there was john curley , gannett 's chief executive officer said .
at usa today , 785 ad pages totaled down 9.2 % from the 1988 period , which was helped by increased ad spending from the summer olympics for the quarter , .
while 2,735 , a decrease of 4 % from last year , usa today 's total paid ad pages for the year to date totaled 8 % the paper 's ad revenue increased in the quarter and 13 % in the nine months .
in the nine months , 9.5 % gannett 's net rose to $ 270 million , or $ 1.68 a share , from $ 247 million , or $ 1.52 a share .
6 % revenue gained to $ 2.55 billion from $ 2.4 billion .
at dow jones & co. , 9.9 % third-quarter net income fell from the year-earlier period .
net fell to $ 28.8 million , or 29 cents a share , from $ 32 million , or 33 cents a share .
a one-time gain of $ 3.5 million , or four cents a share the year-earlier period included .
5.3 % revenue gained to $ 404.1 million from $ 383.8 million .
continued softness in financial advertising at the wall street journal and barron 's magazine the drop in profit reflected , in part , .
6.1 % ad linage at the journal fell in the third quarter .
a year-earlier third quarter net loss affiliated publications inc. reversed .
net of $ 8.5 million , or 12 cents a share , compared with a loss of $ 26.5 million , or 38 cents a share , the publisher of the boston globe reported for the third quarter in 1988 .
to be hurt by softness in ad volume at the boston newspaper earnings continued william o. taylor , the parent 's chairman and chief executive officer , said .
third-quarter profit estimates for several companies is being strongly affected by the price of newsprint , which in the last two years several price increases have had .
after prices 14 % to rise since 1986 to $ 650 a metric ton , a supply crunch caused analysts is encouraged , because a price increase they do n't expect for the rest of this year .
the stable newsprint prices companies with daily newspapers in the northeast will need damage from weak ad linage to ease .
that times mirror co. 's earnings was down for the third quarter , because of soft advertising levels at its long island newsday and hartford courant newspapers he estimate mr. atorino at salomon brothers said .
trouble on the east coast was likely offset by improved ad linage at the los angeles times , which this week a redesign also unveiled .
lower earnings to report for the third quarter because of continued weak advertising levels at its flagship new york times and deep discounting of newsprint at its affiliate , forest products group new york times co. is expected .
`` times co. 's regional daily newspapers is holding up well , but little sign that things will improve there is in the new york market , '' alan kassan , an analyst with shearson lehman hutton said .
improved earnings , to report washington post co. is expected largely because of increased cable revenue and publishing revenue helped by an improved retail market in the washington area .
according to analysts , profits was also helped by successful cost-cutting measures at newsweek .
heightened competition from rival time magazine and a relatively flat magazine advertising market the news-weekly have faced .
knight-ridder inc. is faced with continued uncertainty over the pending joint operating agreement between its detroit free press and gannett 's detroit news , and analysts that earnings was down in the third quarter have told .
analysts however , point to positive advertising spending at several of its major daily newspapers , such as the miami herald and san jose mercury news .
`` the miami market is coming back strong after a tough couple of years `` a hispanic edition knight-ridder when was starting up and circulation was falling , '' '' bruce thorp , an analyst for provident national bank said .
in a series of moves that union officials in the u.s. and canada , angered that the mid-1990s as many as five north american assembly plants may not survive as its excess vehicle-making capacity to cut the corporation struggle general motors corp. , have signaled .
in announcements to workers late last week , death notices for two full-sized van assembly plants , gm effectively signed and serious doubt cast on the futures of three u.s. car factories .
gm is under intense pressure factories that unprofitable became as the giant auto maker 's u.s. market share skidded during the past decade to close .
about 80 % of its north american vehicle capacity , currently using it will run at 100 % of capacity by 1992 the company , have vowed .
an aging assembly plant in lakewood , ga. , the eighth u.s. assembly facility to close since 1987 it would make gm just a month ago , announced .
the pace of its factory consolidation to be stepping up to get in shape for the 1990s gm now , appear .
one reason is mounting competition from new japanese car plants in the u.s. that more than one million vehicles a year is pouring out at costs lower than gm can match .
that tighter no-layoff provisions in the new big three national contract that will be negotiated next year they want united auto workers union officials have signaled another is .
their strategy capacity and the work force to reduce to get in place before those talks begin gm officials want .
that gm 's moves is coming at a time dissidents who the union is too passive in the face of gm layoffs charge to silence uaw leaders when is trying the problem , however , is .
against that backdrop , a statement uaw vice president stephen p. yokich , who head of the union 's gm department , recently became issued friday gm 's `` flagrant insensitivity '' toward union members blasting .
`` disarray '' and an `` inability or unwillingness consistent information , to provide '' the auto maker 's decision word of the latest shutdowns and product reassignments trickle out in separate communiques to the affected plants to let showed mr. yokich said .
workers gm officials told late last week of the following moves : production of full-sized vans will be consolidated into a single plant in flint , mich .
two plants -- one in scarborough , ontario , and the other in lordstown , ohio -- probably will be shut down after the end of 1991 that mean .
about 3,000 canadian assembly workers and about 2,500 workers in ohio the shutdowns will idle .
the impending scarborough shutdown robert white , canadian auto workers union president , used the u.s.-canada free trade agreement and its champion , prime minister brian mulroney to criticize .
but canadian auto workers from a separate gm move that three u.s. car plants and one in quebec affect may benefit .
being the next generation of the pontiac firebird and chevrolet camaro muscle cars to build their facilities is no longer considered workers at plants in van nuys , calif. , oklahoma city and pontiac , mich. , was told .
whether the new camaro-firebird it can build profitably at a plant in st. therese , quebec , gm is studying company and union officials said .
union officials in van nuys and oklahoma city uncertain about their futures that announcement left .
a product to build the van nuys plant , which about 3,000 workers , employ do n't have after 1993 .
plans as a `` flex plant , '' which several different types of products could build on short notice demand to satisfy working to continue to draw up the facility was asked jerry shrieves , uaw local president , said .
at the oklahoma city plant , which about 6,000 workers the eight-year-old a-body mid-sized cars , building employ steve featherston , uaw local vice president , said no new product lined up , the plant have and `` the a-body cars when will die none of us know '' .
plans a-body cars building into the mid-1990s to keep gm have he believe he said .
at pontiac , uaw hopes that the shuttered assembly plant that the plastic-bodied , two-seater pontiac fiero model last built gm would reopen to erase the camaro-firebird decision however , appear .
the fiero plant was viewed as a model of union-management cooperation at gm before the company the factory to close last year slow sales of the fiero forced .
a beating union officials have taken politically as a result .
the fiero plant dissident uaw members have used as a symbol of labor-management cooperation 's failure .
an obstacle to its proposed acquisition of connaught biosciences inc. for 942 million canadian dollars ( us$ 801.6 million ) the canadian government raised institut merieux s.a. of france said .
it that he was n't convinced that the purchase is likely to be of `` net benefit '' to canada the government 's minister of industry , science and technology told merieux said .
that that standard big foreign takeovers meet canadian investment rules require .
30 days in which information its takeover plan to further support to submit the government gave it the french company said .
both merieux and connaught is biotechnology research and vaccine manufacturing concerns .
the government 's action was unusual .
the first time in its four-year history an adverse net-benefit decision about the acquisition of a publicly traded company the agency that have made it marked alan nymark , executive vice president of investment canada , which foreign takeovers , oversee said .
the same conclusions about some attempts closely held to buy concerns , it have reached but those acquisitions to proceed eventually allowed he said .
`` this is n't a change in government policy ; this provision have been used before , '' jodi redmond , press secretary for harvie andre , canada 's minister of industry , science and technology said .
the ruling mr. andre issued based on a recommendation by investment canada .
they had n't been informed of specific areas of concern by either the government or investment canada , spokesmen for merieux and connaught said but more information to have early this week they hope added .
to comment on the reasons for the government decision investment canada declined .
the government 's ruling was n't unexpected viren mehta , a partner with mehta & isaly , a new york-based pharmaceutical industry research firm , said .
`` a very politicized deal , concerning canada 's only large , world-class bio-research or pharmaceutical company , this have become '' mr. mehta said .
the move that the transaction to go ahead as planned could allow could be an out-of-court settlement of connaught 's dispute with the university of toronto mr. mehta said .
the acquisition of connaught by foreign interests , to block the university is seeking concerns about the amount of research that would be done in canada citing .
a settlement proposal made by connaught the university is considering .
while its contents , neither side will disclose it more specific guarantees on research and development spending levels in canada than merieux offered to investment canada to contain mr. mehta expect .
the door open for other bidders , such as switzerland 's ciba-geigy and chiron corp. of emeryville , calif the government ruling leave some analysts , such as murray grossner of toronto-based richardson greenshields inc. , believe .
officials for the two concerns , which c$ 30 a share is bidding for connaught , could n't be reached for comment .
51 % of merieux french state-owned rhone-poulenc s.a. hold .
plans for a preferred-stock swap it canceled but payment of dividends on the stock , may resume weatherford international inc. said and that about 10 million common shares to publicly offer it expect added .
an undetermined number of common shares to offer in exchange for the 585,000 shares of its preferred stock outstanding it planned the company said .
the exchange ratio was never established .
market conditions led to the cancellation of the planned exchange weatherford said .
that in january 1990 , payments of dividends on the preferred stock it may resume the energy-services concern said however , , .
its preferred-dividend payment weatherford suspended in october 1985 and any plans to catch up on dividends in arrears about $ 6 million , it have n't but will do so some time in the future said .
it filed with the securities and exchange commission for the proposed offering of 10 million shares of common stock , to be offered in november expected the company additionally , said .
an option as much as an additional 1.5 million shares to buy over-allotments to cover salomon brothers inc. and howard , weil , labouisse , friedrichs inc. , underwriters for the offering , was granted the company said .
bank debt to eliminate and restructure proceeds will be used .
approximately 11.1 million common shares outstanding weatherford currently have .
to have moved ahead briskly in the third quarter , as companies with newer , big-selling prescription drugs fared especially well earnings for most of the nation 's major pharmaceutical makers is believed .
that all merck & co. , eli lilly & co. , warner-lambert co. and the squibb corp. unit of bristol-myers squibb co. benefited from strong sales of relatively new , higher-priced medicines that wide profit margins provide analysts said .
less robust earnings at pfizer inc. and upjohn co. was attributed to those companies ' older products , stiffening competition from generic drugs and other medicines many of which face .
that over the past few years their slow-growing businesses most drug makers have shed and other cost savings , such as manufacturing plants and administrative staffs consolidating instituted joseph riccardo , an analyst with bear , stearns & co. , said .
as a result , `` significant impact , major new products is having even on a company with very large revenues , '' mr. riccardo said .
between 11 % and 14 % to have climbed profit for the dozen or so big drug makers , as a group , is estimated analysts said .
while that be not spectacular , that `` especially good as compared to other companies the rate of growth will look if the economy turn downward '' neil sweig , an analyst with prudential bache , said .
that merck 's profit for the quarter rose by about 22 % , propelled by sales of its line-up of fast-growing prescription drugs , including its anti-cholesterol drug , mevacor ; a high blood pressure medicine , vasotec ; primaxin , an antibiotic , and pepcid , an anti-ulcer medication mr. sweig estimated .
profit climbed though merck 's sales even was reduced by `` one to three percentage points '' as a result of the strong dollar , mr. sweig said .
in the third quarter of 1988 , $ 311.8 million , or 79 cents a share merck earned .
in rahway , n.j. , earnings projections the company do n't make a merck spokesman said .
that about 20 % , lilly 's earnings for the quarter jumped largely because of the performance of its new anti-depressant prozac he estimated mr. sweig said .
sales of about $ 300 million to generate this year the drug , introduced last year , is expected .
`` to be a real blockbuster , it be turning out '' mr. sweig said .
in last year 's third quarter , $ 171.4 million , or $ 1.20 a share lilly earned .
in indianapolis , comment lilly declined .
warner-lambert 's profit also to increase by more than 20 % from $ 87.7 million , or $ 1.25 a share , it reported in the like period last year they expected several analysts said .
the company is praised by analysts for its costs sharply lowering in recent years and numerous companies with low profit margins shedding .
analysts said , sharp-rising sales from its cholesterol drug , lopid , earnings growth to power the company 's lean operation , allowed .
to be about $ 300 million this year , up from $ 190 million in 1988 lopid sales is expected .
in morris plains , n.j. , the analysts ' projections is `` in the ballpark '' a spokesman for the company said .
to be about 18 % above the $ 123 million , or $ 1.25 a share , it earned in the third quarter of 1988 , estimated by analysts squibb 's profit , was the result of especially strong sales of its capoten drug for high blood pressure and other heart disease treating .
the company was officially merged with bristol-myers co. earlier this month .
to comment bristol-myers declined .
that schering-plough corp. 's expected profit rise of about 18 % to 20 % , and bristol-meyers 's expected profit increase of about 13 % is because `` those companies largely is really managed well '' mr. riccardo of bear stearns said .
$ 94.4 million , or 84 cents a share , scheringplough earned while $ 232.3 million , or 81 cents a share , bristol-myers earned in the like period a year earlier .
in madison , n.j. , `` no problems '' with the average estimate by a analysts that third-quarter earnings per share rose by about 19 % , to $ 1 the company have a spokesman for schering-plough said .
the 20 % increase in full-year earnings per share , to achieve as it projected in the spring , the company expect the spokesman said .
pfizer 's recent string of lackluster quarterly performances continued , as to decline by about 5 % earnings in the quarter was expected analysts meanwhile , said .
sales of pfizer 's important drugs , feldene for arthritis , treating and procardia , a heart medicine , have shrunk because of increased competition .
`` pfizer the ( strong ) dollar hurt too , a lot , '' mr. sweig said .
in the third quarter last year , $ 216.8 million , or $ 1.29 a share pfizer earned .
in new york , comment the company declined .
upjohn 's profit to be flat or rise by only about 2 % to 4 % as compared with $ 89.6 million , or 49 cents a share , it earned a year ago they expected analysts said .
upjohn 's biggest-selling drugs is xanax , a tranquilizer , and halcion , a sedative .
sales of both drugs have been hurt by new state laws the prescriptions of certain tranquilizing medicines restricting and adverse publicity about the excessive use of the drugs .
the company 's hair-growing drug , rogaine , also , is selling well -- at about $ 125 million for the year , but the company 's profit from the drug have been reduced by upjohn 's expensive print and television campaigns for advertising , analysts said .
in kalamazoo , mich. , comment upjohn declined .
amid a crowd of crashing stocks , relational technology inc. 's stock fell particularly hard friday , 23 % dropping because its problems was compounded by disclosure of an unexpected loss for its fiscal first quarter .
a $ 2 million net loss for the fiscal first quarter ended sept. 30 it expect the database software company said .
a small profit for the period analysts had been expecting it said .
to be `` up modestly '' from the $ 26.5 million reported a year ago revenue is expected .
net income of $ 1.5 million , or 12 cents a share , in the year-earlier period relational technology reported .
`` while strong growth , our international operations showed our domestic business was substantially below expectations , '' paul newton , president and chief executive officer said .
a spokesman said the company 's first quarter is historically soft , and slower sales computer companies in general is experiencing .
the resignation of thomas wilson , vice president of corporate sales , he accepted and that his marketing responsibilities have been reassigned mr. newton said .
mr. wilson 's resignation was n't related to the sales shortfall the company said .
public relational technology went in may 1988 at $ 14 a share .
$ 1.875 a share it fell friday , to $ 6.25 , a new low , in over-the-counter trading .
its high for the past year was $ 16.375 a share .
in the previous quarter , $ 4.5 million , or 37 cents a share , the company earned on sales of $ 47.2 million .
a wonderful botanical garden , a great zoo , its own charming little italy ( on arthur avenue ) and , of course , the yankees the bronx have .
having been subjected to news footage of the devastated south bronx , the way tom wolfe 's sherman mccoy did in `` bonfire of the vanities '' most people , however , look at the borough -- as a wrong turn into hell .
but laura cunningham 's bronx , her childhood bronx of the '50s , is something else altogether .
in a lovely , novelistic memoir , `` sleeping arrangements '' ( knopf , 195 pages , $ 18.95 ) , an exotic playground , peopled mainly by jewish eccentrics and the occasional catholic ( real oddballs like her sexpot friend , the hell-kitten diana , age five ) she remember .
a vivid and dramatically outsized sense of recall ms. cunningham , a novelist and playwright , have .
her `` bronx of the emotions , a place the flats of mediocrity where is only relieved by steep descents into hysteria '' she transform into the `` babylonian bronx , '' a world simmering with sex and death and intrigue .
in the babylonian bronx , jewish working-class people lived in drab , soviet-style buildings `` glamorized '' with names like anamor towers ( after owners anna and morris snezak ) , whose lobbies and hallways was decorated with murals of ancient syrians and greeks , friezes of pompeii .
for ms. cunningham the discrepancy living in the anamor towers as a little girl she felt : `` ... '' outwardly ordinary , inwardly ornate , all inspiration owing to heathen cultures the architectural discombobulation matched .
sharp-witted and funny but never mean , she be a memorialist a bit like truman capote , if he 'd been jewish and female and less bitchy .
really little lily , as herself ms. cunningham call in the book , was n't ordinary .
by her mother , rosie , whom she as a loving liar , who history realigned to explain lily 's father why did n't live with them remember she was raised , for the first eight years , .
this man , who may or may not have known about his child , rosie reinvented as a war hero for lily 's benefit .
young rosie died and her lily as a romantic figure , who did n't interfere much with her child 's education on the streets have remembered .
tame the games bronx children played ( kids holding down and them , stripping for example ) seem by today 's crack standards , but all it sound like a great adventure ms. cunningham make .
`` without official knowledge of sex or death , we flirted with both , '' she write .
families she analyzed by their sleeping arrangements .
her friend susan , her reminding she was unwanted , whose parents kept slept on a narrow bed wedged into her parents ' bedroom , as though she was a temporary visitor .
her friend diana 's father was a professional thief ; any bedrooms to have at all they did n't seem .
so obsessed with people where slept and how lily maybe became because shifting her own arrangements kept .
rosie when died , her uncles moved in -- and the sleeping and other household arrangements her make let .
the apartment orange , pink and white , they painted according to her instructions .
with loving detail her uncle gabe , an orthodox jew and song lyricist ( who river rhymed with liver in a love song ) ; and uncle len , a mysterious part-time investigator who looked like lincoln and a change of clothing carried in a manila envelope , like an `` undercover president on a good-will mission '' she recall .
they came honestly by their strangeness .
the heads of disliked relatives lily 's grandmother , no cookie baker , excised from the family album , and her perennial work-in-progress , `` philosophy for women '' lugged around .
some momentum the book lose toward the end , more preoccupied with boys dating and less with her delightfully weird family lily when become .
the bronx in bruce jay friedman 's latest novel , which flash back to the new york of the '50s also figure .
but cramped and static both the past and present worlds of `` the current climate '' ( atlantic monthly press , 200 pages , $ 18.95 ) feel .
for his sixth novel , the protagonist of his 1972 work , `` about harry towns '' to resuscitate mr. friedman tried .
harry is now a 57-year-old writer , quaintly out-of-synch whose continuing flirtation with drugs and marginal types in hollywood and new york seem .
the `` old '' days of the early '70s , a psychiatrist people like his friend travis when would take on a date what travis was doing wrong to analyze harry fondly remember .
`` an l.a. solution , '' mr. friedman explain .
line by line mr. friedman 's weary cynicism can be amusing , he especially when be riffing on the hollywood social scheme -- the way each other the desperate ones who it merely almost made immediately canceling people size up , .
all that harry have avoided by living in a long island suburb with his wife , who 's so addicted to soap operas and mystery novels to notice her husband when disappear for drug-seeking forays into manhattan she barely seem .
but too many lines it do n't take harry to figure out .
he be a bore .
$ 1.5 million to pay as part of an accord with the environmental protection agency an environmental cleanup of a defunct smelter the company formerly operated in idaho regarding it agreed gulf resources & chemical corp. said .
in 1984 gulf resources , which was a part-owner of the smelter , that it was potentially liable for cleanup costs at the site sharing under the federal superfund program the epa notified .
the 21-square-mile area is contaminated with lead , zinc and other metals .
earlier this year a reorganization plan that it a unit of a bermuda concern , it potentially exempting from liability for the smelter 's cleanup costs would make gulf resources proposed .
that as part of its agreement with the epa , `` certain voluntary undertakings it made with respect to intercorporate transactions entered into after the reorganization '' the company said .
that $ 1 million of the payment was previously provided for in its financial statements and that $ 500,000 will be recognized in its 1989 third-quarter statement the company , which a statement on the agreement issued late friday , said .
the agreement and consent decree is subject to court approval , the company said .
that `` equitable contribution to recover from others for both the amount of the settlement and any other liabilities it may incur under the superfund law it will seek '' gulf resources added .
under the agreement , 45 days ' advance written notice gulf must give the u.s. government before any dividends issuing on common stock .
the company 's net worth can not fall below $ 185 million after the dividends is issued .
`` effective the date of gulf 's reorganization , which will occur sometime in early 1990 , we anticipate the terms of that agreement only become '' lawrence r. mehl , gulf 's general counsel said .
in addition , 20 days ' advance written notice of any loans $ 50 million exceeding that is made to the bermuda-based holding company gulf must give the government .
a special meeting for shareholders to hold in early 1990 to vote on its proposed reorganization it expect the company separately , said .
that the market do n't head into a bottomless free fall , assuming a harbinger of good news -- as a sign that the leveraged buy-out and takeover frenzy of recent years may be abating friday 's action could prove some executives think .
`` this is a reaction to artificial lbo valuations , rather than to any fundamentals , '' john young , chairman of hewlett-packard co. , $ 3.125 whose shares dropped to $ 48.125 said .
`` if rid of a lot of that nonsense , we get it will be a big plus . ''
a few of the executives here for the fall meeting of the business council , a group that national issues , to discuss meet were only too happy their criticism to personalize .
`` something the government would do about leveraged buy-outs , something do about takeovers , something do about donald trump , people wish '' rand araskog , chairman of itt corp. , $ 3.375 whose stock dropped said .
the guy who ` enough is enough ' can say : where 's '' ?
the executives was remarkably unperturbed by the plunge though billions of dollars it even lopped off the value of their companies -- and millions off their personal fortunes .
`` to worry about one day 's decline , i be not going '' kenneth olsen , digital equipment corp. president , who was leisurely strolling through the bright orange and yellow leaves of the mountains here after $ 5.75 his company 's shares plunged to close at $ 86.50 said .
`` anybody calling i did n't bother ; i did n't even turn on tv '' .
`` there has n't been any fundamental change in the economy , '' john smale , whose an $ 8.75 slide procter & gamble co. took to close at $ 120.75 added .
`` some comfort that this wo n't be a problem the fact that this happened two years ago and a recovery there was give people '' .
of course , the setbacks of stock speculators and takeover artists to applaud established corporate managements often tend .
indeed , one chief executive who was downright delighted by friday 's events was robert crandall , chairman of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines and the target of a takeover offer by mr. trump .
whether being trumped by the new york real estate magnate , him avoid friday 's action could help asked mr. crandall smiled broadly and said : `` no comment '' .
on friday morning , before the market 's sell-off , a report the economy would grow at roughly an inflation-adjusted 2 % annual rate , through next year , then accelerate anew in 1991 predicting the business leaders issued .
periods of decline in the nation 's output over the next two years , of the 19 economists who worked on the business council forecast , only two projected and `` in both instances the declines is too modest the phrase recession , to warrant '' lewis preston , chairman of j.p. morgan & co. and vice chairman of the business council said .
the city 's retail real estate market the real estate slump that the price of new york office space and housing be pushing down is also affecting .
in manhattan , vacant once-desirable store sites sit and newly constructed space has been slow to fill .
tenants is reluctant leases to sign because of uncertainty about the local economy , turmoil in their own industries and a belief that bottom rents have not yet hit retail real estate brokers say .
`` an unbelievable amount of space available , there is '' faith consolo , senior vice president at garrick-aug associates store leasing inc say .
about 2,000 stores for rent , there is up from a more typical range of 1,200 to 1,500 .
`` retailers , this further confuse '' she say .
`` they wonder a lease they should sign if prices is still coming down ?
in addition , ms. consolo say , rents that are about one-quarter lower than landlords ' initial asking price to pay tenants usually can negotiate .
and , in some neighborhoods , a plateau rents have merely hit .
but on average , 10 % to 15 % manhattan retail rents have dropped in the past six months alone , experts say .
a more subtle decline in the prior six months , after manhattan rents had run up rapidly since 1986 that follow .
retailing the same factors demand for office space limiting have affected .
`` as businesses contract or depart , the number of employees who retail services might use shrink , '' edward a. friedman , senior vice president of helmsley spear inc say .
the market financial problems electronics , fur and furniture companies -- key categories in the local retail economy -- plaguing have further deflated he say .
hardest hit are he what `` secondary '' sites that neighborhood residents primarily serve call .
in these locations , mr. friedman say , `` retailers is increasingly cautious about expanding and steady rents have remained or in some cases have declined . ''
the problem weakness in the restaurant industry , which retail space vacant , is leaving exacerbate for landlords .
it is also no comfort to landlords and small new york retailers when the future of larger department stores , which retail neighborhoods , anchor is in doubt .
hooker corp. , parent of bonwit teller and b. altman 's , is mired in bankruptcy proceedings and bloomingdale 's is for sale by its owner , campeau corp .
surprising the trend toward lower rents may seem given that the loss of favorite local businesses to high rents some communities in new york is bemoaning .
but , despite the recent softening , for many of these retailers there 's still been too big a jump from the rental rates of the late 1970s , their leases when was signed .
cheap manhattan come the recent drop in prices certainly , do n't mean .
new york retail rents still run well above the going rate in other u.s. cities .
rents of up to $ 500 a square foot , madison and fifth avenues and east 57th street can command and $ 250 is not uncommon .
rents of about $ 100 a square foot , the thriving 34th street area offer as up-and-coming locations along lower fifth avenue do .
by contrast , $ 100 a square foot rentals in the best retail locations in boston , san francisco and chicago rarely top .
and about $ 125 a square foot rents on beverly hills ' rodeo drive generally do n't exceed .
trading two securities will begin this week the new york stock exchange said .
trading with the symbol pcp precision castparts corp. , portland , ore. , will begin .
investment castings it make and over-the-counter has traded .
american depositary shares , royal bank of scotland group plc , an edinburgh , scotland , financial services company , will list preferred shares , representing with the symbol rbspr .
to trade on the international stock exchange , london it will continue .
shares of two companies the american stock exchange listed .
trading with the symbol aim aim telephones inc. , a parsippany , n.j. , telecommunications equipment supply company , started .
over-the-counter it had traded .
trading with the symbol cob columbia laboratories inc. , miami , began .
over-the-counter the pharmaceuticals maker had traded .
shares of one company the national market system of the nasdaq over-the-counter market listed .
employee benefit plans inc. , a minneapolis health-care services company , was listed with the symbol ebpi .
the start of his 34th year on the supreme court justice william brennan when mark today , the occasion will differ sharply from previous anniversaries of his tenure .
for the first time , his influence the 83-year-old justice find almost exclusively in dissent , rather than as a force in the high court 's majority .
true , this role reversal hold as well , for his three liberal and moderate allies , justices thurgood marshall , harry blackmun and john stevens .
but these four players , three of them in their 80s , is ready a different role to assume after 88 years , collectively , of service on the high court ?
that the four are prepared this new role , and the frustrations that go with it , to accept but in different ways every indication is .
philosophical about it justices brennan and stevens appear ; fighting mad justices marshall and blackmun appear .
the four justices is no newcomers to dissent , forces often joining in the past decade the court 's conservative drift to criticize .
but in years past , the trend they always , have bucked and have been able a fifth vote to pick up a number of major victories in civil rights and liberties cases to eke out .
now , however , as to solidify , the court 's new five-member conservative majority continue victories for the liberals is rare .
the change is most dramatic for justice brennan , the last survivor of the mid-1960s liberal majority under chief justice earl warren .
in the seven supreme court terms from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1967 , the height of the warren court 's power , only 25 dissenting votes justice brennan cast in 555 cases decided by the court .
last term alone 52 dissenting votes he cast in 133 decisions , with the contentious flag-burning ruling as his only big victory .
but his new role , justice brennan foresaw the importance of dissents strongly defending in a 1985 speech .
`` each time an issue , the court revisit the fundamental questions to reconsider and the result , to rethink the justices will be forced by a dissent '' he said .
in recent months that when he was on the winning side in the 1960s , that the tables might turn in the future he knew he moreover , have said .
that justice john harlan how felt , he now know he have said a reference to the late conservative justice who was the most frequent dissenter from the warren court 's opinions .
he was `` depressed '' about the court 's direction last spring , but is feisty about his role and determined to speak out against the court 's cutbacks in civil rights associates of 81-year-old justice marshall say .
`` it we could sweep under the rug and it , hide but it , to do i be not going '' he said in a speech last month .
like justice brennan , dissents highly important for the future , he , consider a point legal scholars that have n't escaped .
a `` generation-skipping '' flavor there is to current dissents harvard law school professor laurence tribe say .
he say , to be writing for the short-term , that the court 's direction might change soon suggesting the dissenters in the warren court , appeared .
`` brennan and marshall is speaking in their dissents to a more distant future , '' he say .
feisty about his new role justice blackmun , who 81 will turn next month , also seem .
some defeats especially attempts the right to abortion first recognized in his 1973 opinion , roe vs. wade to curtail he take more personally than his colleagues , associates say .
he was no more discouraged about the court than in recent years friends and associates who justice blackmun saw during the summer said .
and his outlook improved after successful cataract surgery in august .
but his level of frustration showed in a recent , impassioned speech to a group of hundreds of lawyers in chicago .
his remarks he concluded by the late martin luther king 's famous `` a dream i have '' speech from the 1963 march on washington quoting emotionally and at some length , , according to those present , .
justice stevens , 69 , is probably the most philosophical of the dissenters about his role , in part because he may be the least liberal of the four , but also because the intellectual challenge of arguing with the majority he enjoy more than the others .
if the role these four dissenters is assuming is a familiar one in modern supreme court history , it also differ in an important way from recent history , court watchers say .
`` a legal legacy that they inherited , the dissenters of the warren court was often defending '' say prof. a.e. dick howard of the university of virginia law school , `` but a legacy that they created the dissenters today is defending .
the deposits of four savings-and-loan institutions , the government sold in its first wave of sales of big , sick thrifts , but the sale of a fifth low bids prevented .
the four s&ls was sold to large banks , as was the case with most of the 28 previous transactions initiated by the resolution trust corp. since it was created two months ago in the s&l bailout legislation .
two of the four big thrifts to ncnb corp. , charlotte , n.c. , which its markets , have aggressively expanded particularly in texas and florida were sold .
another thrift , a canadian bank bought in the first rtc transaction with a foreign bank .
under these deals , just the deposits and the healthy assets the rtc sell .
the bulk of bad assets , mostly real estate , these `` clean-bank '' transactions leave with the government , to be sold later .
in these four , for instance , the rtc is stuck with $ 4.51 billion in bad assets .
premiums ranging from 1.5 % to 3.7 % acquirers paid for the deposits and branch systems , roughly in line with what analysts were expecting .
the buyers will also be locked into deposit rates for just two weeks , as has been the case with previous deals .
after that , the rates paid by the former thrifts the buyers may repudiate .
but it be uncertain whether those steps these institutions will take .
ncnb , for example , has been one of the highest rate payers in the texas market , and in florida , rates is especially sensitive in retirement communities .
five thrifts the rtc had previously targeted for quick sales in order cash to spend by certain budgetary deadlines , but the tough chore the agency facing the delays illustrate .
`` these thrifts is beached whales , '' bert ely , an industry consultant based in alexandria , va said .
for example , the rtc the thrift selling off branch-by-branch , instead of as a whole institution to consider the delay in people 's heritage savings , salina , kan. , with $ 1.7 billion in assets , selling have forced .
its foray into the florida and texas markets ncnb continued .
university federal savings association , houston , which assets of $ 2.8 billion had ncnb will acquire .
a premium of $ 129 million ncnb texas national bank will pay the rtc for $ 3.5 billion in deposits .
as a measure of the depths to which the texas real estate market have sunk , $ 3.8 billion the rtc will pay to ncnb $ 750 million of bad assets to take .
freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , which total assets of $ 900 million had ncnb also acquired .
a premium of $ 40.4 million ncnb will pay the rtc for $ 1.1 billion in deposits .
$ 266 million of freedom 's assets ncnb from the rtc , which $ 875 million in assistance will require will also acquire .
hill financial savings association , red hill , pa. , which $ 2.3 billion in assets had meridian bancorp inc. , reading , pa. , will acquire .
a premium of $ 30.5 million meridian will pay $ 2 billion in deposits to assume .
$ 845 million of the thrift 's assets , it will also purchase with $ 1.9 billion in rtc assistance .
in the first rtc transaction with a foreign buyer , pacific savings bank , costa mesa , calif. , which $ 949 million in assets had royal trustco ltd. , toronto , will acquire .
$ 25 million royal trustco will pay the rtc $ 989 million in deposits to assume .
$ 473 million in assets , it will also purchase and $ 550 million in assistance receive from the rtc .
the following issues was recently filed with the securities and exchange commission :
pacificare health systems inc. , proposed offering of 1.5 million common shares , of which 700,000 shares will be offered by pacificare and 800,000 shares by unihealth america inc . ( pacificare 's 71 % ) , via dillon , read & co. inc. , goldman , sachs & co. and dean witter reynolds inc .
in a move the costs of new subscribers , wooing to reduce its circulation guarantee to advertisers time magazine , is lowering for the second consecutive year , its subscription rates increasing and cutting back on merchandise giveaways .
in an announcement to its staff last week , `` its use of electronic giveaways such as telephones in television subscription drives time will dramatically de-emphasize '' ; the circulation advertisers it guarantee cut by 300,000 , to four million ; and the cost of its annual subscription rate increase by about $ 4 to $ 55 executives at time warner inc. 's weekly magazine said .
in a related development , for the fourth year in a row , its advertising rates it wo n't increase in 1990 the news-weekly , said ; about $ 120,000 a full , four-color page in the magazine cost .
however , because the guaranteed circulation base is being lowered , ad rates will be effectively 7.5 % higher per subscriber , according to richard heinemann , time associate publisher .
the course of some other mass-circulation magazines in recent years the publishing myth that artificially high , and expensive , circulations maintaining is the way advertisers to draw that have challenged time is following .
in recent years , their massive circulation rate bases reader 's digest , new york times co. 's mccall 's , and most recently news corp. 's tv guide , have cut marginal circulation to eliminate and rates for advertisers hold down .
accepted forms of new subscribers attracting deep discounts in subscriptions and offers of free clock radios and watches have become in the hyper-competitive world of magazine news-weeklies .
but as part of the more cost-conscious time warner , itself to wean away from expensive gimmicks time , want .
a news magazine selling with a clock radio is tacky time executives besides , think .
`` the wrong image , giveaways just give people '' mr. heinemann said .
`` the focus that perception take off the magazine '' .
the circulation cut time magazine executives predictably paint as a show of strength and actually a benefit to advertisers .
`` the readers who are only casually related to the magazine and it , do n't really read screening out what we are doing is '' mr. heinemann said .
`` quality and involvement to create we is trying '' .
the same explanation time executives however , used in october 1988 its guaranteed circulation the magazine when cut from 4.6 million to 4.3 million .
and according to audit bureau of circulations , 7.3 % time 's paid circulation , dropped to 4,393,237 in the six months ended june 30 , 1989 .
time 's move still , is being received well , once again .
`` it be terrific for more , the reader will be paying advertisers to know '' michael drexler , national media director at bozell inc. ad agency said .
`` a few drops in circulation is of no consequence .
it be not a show of weakness ; the quality of circulation they is improving while their profits insuring . ''
a new focus in the magazine industry : a magazine 's net revenue per subscriber , or the actual revenue from subscribers after discounts and the cost of premiums have been stripped away the changes represent mr. heinemann said .
`` how much we is getting from each reader , the question is '' mr. heinemann said .
time 's rivals news-weeklies , washington post co. 's newsweek and u.s. news & world report , is less reliant on electronic giveaways , and in recent years their circulation rate bases both have been increasing .
their ad rates and circulation levels for 1990 to announce within a month both magazines is expected .
the news when broke two weeks ago , of an attempted coup in panama the state department sen. christopher dodd called for a briefing .
' `` cnn , follow they said , ` '' reporters he told .
ted turner 's cable news network how far have come since its birth nine years ago , the laughingstock of television news it when was considered that show .
it is bigger , faster and more profitable than the news divisions of any of the three major broadcast networks .
elite audiences its niche as the `` network of record '' during major crises draw around the world .
but for all its success , a plateau cnn have hit .
although viewership soars big news when break , it ebb during periods of calm .
that stale the network 's punchy but repetitive news format may be getting and wo n't keep viewers coming back as the alternatives multiply for news and information on cable-tv cnn executives worry .
`` just the fact we be on 24 hours is no longer bulletin , '' ed turner , cnn 's executive vice president , news gathering ( and no relation to ted turner ) say .
itself to reposition as a primary channel , or what a `` top of mind '' network people in the television industry call cnn , a unit of atlanta-based turner broadcasting system inc. , so is trying .
tonight , the effort , to kick off its first prime-time newscast in years , an hourlong show at 6 p.m . eastern time to air head-to-head against the network newscasts cnn will premiere .
the show will be co-anchored by bernard shaw and catherine crier , a 34-year-old former texas judge and campus beauty queen who a job in television or journalism have never held .
the new show is perhaps the boldest in a number of steps audience loyalty to build by shifting away from its current format toward more full-length `` signature '' programming with recognizable stars the network is taking .
itself , to distinguish international coverage cnn is also expanding and a second global-news program adding .
higher salaries it is paying -- after years of scrimping -- experienced staffers to lure and keep .
and it is embarking on an expensive gamble major stories to break with a large investigative-reporting team .
`` a point of reference to become at ordinary dinner tables , beyond the opinion leaders who us use as a point of reference to get the next stage is '' says jon petrovich , executive vice president of headline news , cnn 's sister network .
like other consumer products , images in peoples ' minds that are n't easy to change networks , develop .
money that cnn has been reluctant to spend it also take programs to make and talent that to see viewers will tune in specially hire .
and the cable-tv operators -- cnn 's distributors and part owners -- like things just the way they is .
the repositioning bid is aimed at cnn 's unsteady viewership -- and what may happen to it as more competitive the cable-tv news market grows .
stronger competition from financial news network inc. and general electric co. 's consumer news and business channel , both of which are likely more general news to pursue in the future cnn already , is facing .
in addition , more local and regional news programs produced by local broadcast stations many cable-tv systems themselves is airing .
its viewers ' habits to change cnn want .
its watchers is , on the whole , a disloyal group of channel-zapping `` grazers '' and news junkies , who an average of just 26 minutes a day cnn , watching spend according to audience research .
that be less than one-third the time the major broadcast networks viewers that watch .
it the brief attention cnn viewers give could put at a disadvantage as more important to cable-tv channels ratings data , and advertising , become .
cnn 's viewer habits have been molded by its format .
to serve as a tv wire service its strategy in the past have been .
as place events took live it so could go quicker and longer than other networks it focused on building up its news bureaus around the world , .
its daily schedule it filled with newscasts `` daybreak , '' `` daywatch , '' `` newsday , '' and `` newsnight , '' called but little the shows varied in content , personality or look .
now , the push is on for more-distinctive shows .
`` more programs with an individual identity , to create our goal is '' paul amos , cnn executive vice president for programming say .
a world-affairs show in the morning cnn accordingly , is adding because its global-news hour in the afternoon is among its most `` differentiated '' programs in viewers ' minds , surveys show mr. amos say .
and other original programs , similar to its `` larry king live '' and `` crossfire '' talk shows , which will keep people tuned in executives hope it is exploring .
`` the world today , '' the prime-time newscast mr. shaw and ms. crier featuring then there be .
until now , its hollywood gossip show cnn have featured during the key evening period .
but 70 % of the cable-television-equipped households that news watch do so between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. , the network discovered , so cnn want in .
two live interviews a day , the shaw-crier team will probably do with at least for now , similar to cnn 's other newcasts most of the program , appearing mr. amos say .
`` hard it to conceive of people switching over to cnn for at least in the public 's mind , what , is the same news , i find '' reuven frank , the former two-time president of nbc news and creator of the huntley-brinkley report say .
the evening news is also slated as cnn 's stage for its big push into investigative journalism .
in august , award-winning producer pamela hill , the former head of news specials at abc the network hired .
a staff of about 35 investigative reporters who weekly , in-depth segments , will produce with an eye toward big stories breaking she be assembling .
excitement the headlines created by such scoops will generate for its `` branded '' programs , in the way `` 60 minutes '' did so well for cbs cnn executives hope .
that be such a departure from the past that many in the industry are skeptical cnn will follow through with its investigative commitment , after the cost of in-depth pieces producing it especially see .
`` any inclination money to spend on production , they have never shown '' michael mosettig , a senior producer with macneil-lehrer newshour , who that cnn is indispensable to his job notes say .
resulting in a less-experienced work force the network 's salaries have always ranged far below industry standards , .
raises of as much as 15 % , cnn recently gave most employees but they 're still drastically underpaid compared with the networks .
`` cnn is my wire service ; they be on top of everything mr. mosettig say : .
but to improve , the investment in people to make they have really got '' .
in any case , reason any tinkering with cnn 's format to fear cable-tv-system operators have .
cable-tv they market on the very grazing opportunities to discourage cnn seek .
`` we would obviously be upset if those kinds of services evolved into more general-interest , long-format programming , '' robert stengel , senior vice president , programming , of continental cablevision inc. , which a 2 % stake in turner broadcasting hold say .
the position pennzoil co. took in its dispute with texaco , the second u.s. circuit court of appeals opinion in the arcadian phosphate case did not repudiate contrary to your sept. 8 article `` texaco 's view court back too late in pennzoil case -- '' .
that agreements to which to be bound the parties did not intend courts will not enforce the fundamental rule of contract law applied to both cases was .
in the pennzoil/texaco litigation , to be bound pennzoil and getty oil intended the courts found ; in arcadian phosphates no intention to be bound there was they found .
admittedly , the principle in the cases is the same .
but the outcome of a legal dispute almost always turn on the facts .
and as found by the various courts in these two lawsuits , the facts , was different .
its application five valley federal branches , to buy imperial corp. of america withdrew from regulators the transaction leaving in limbo valley federal savings & loan association said .
the broken purchase appear as additional evidence of trouble at imperial corp. , its application the company withdrew from the federal office of thrift supervision because of an informal notice that community reinvestment act requirements to meet imperial 's thrift unit failed whose spokesman said .
savings and loan associations money to lend in amounts related to areas deposits where is received the community reinvestment act require .
announced in august , about $ 146 million in deposits at the five outlets in california 's san joaquin valley the transaction , included .
terms was n't disclosed , but a modest pretax gain to post and about $ 2 million in operating costs to save annually it expected valley federal had said .
that whether another buyer for the branches to seek or the transaction with imperial corp. , which community reinvestment act requirements to meet it is attempting said to pursue it is considering valley federal said friday .
valley federal , with assets of $ 3.3 billion , is based in van nuys .
imperial corp. , based in san diego , is the parent of imperial savings & loan .
in the first six months of the year a net loss of $ 33.1 million it posted .
it the `` we be too broke to fight '' defense call .
a new tack lawyers for dozens of insolvent savings and loan associations is trying in their efforts suits filed by borrowers , developers and creditors to defuse .
that the suits , 700 to 1,000 numbering in texas alone , should be dismissed as moot because the money judgments to pay neither the s&ls nor the extinct federal savings and loan insurance corp. have the thrifts ' lawyers claim .
though a common-sense ring the argument may have to it , little precedent their position to back there be even the s&l lawyers concede .
it be willing the notion , to entertain one federal appeals court still , have signaled and their arguments the lawyers have renewed in texas and eight other states the defense where is permitted under state law .
a long way the dismissal of the pending suits could go toward court dockets in texas clearing and the fslic 's massive legal bills , which $ 73 million topped last year reducing .
the s&l lawyers was encouraged last month by an appellate-court ruling in two cases brought against defunct sunbelt savings & loan association of dallas by the developers of the valley ranch , best known as the training center for the dallas cowboys football team .
sunbelt foreclosed on the ranch .
`` that there will never be any assets with which a judgment against sunbelt savings to satisfy nor any means to collect from any other party , including fslic '' sunbelt and the fslic argued to the fifth u.s. circuit court of appeals .
`` if true , '' the court wrote , `` dismissal of these actions this contention would justify on prudential grounds '' .
but enough financial information about sunbelt and the fslic it lacked the court said and the cases sent back to federal district court in dallas .
a brief to file this week the district judge the suits , to dismiss urging he plan because its assets sunbelt 's liabilities exceeded by about $ 2 billion it federal regulators when closed in august 1988 charles haworth , a lawyer for sunbelt , say .
`` this institution is just brain dead , '' mr. haworth , a partner in the dallas office of andrews & kurth , a houston law firm say .
but such arguments a lawyer for triland investment group , the developer of valley ranch , dismiss as a `` defense du jour '' .
a judgment for triland could be satisfied in ways other than a monetary award , including the reversal of sunbelt 's foreclosure on valley ranch attorney richard jackson of dallas say .
`` the court we be asking for a number of things he can grant in addition to the thrill of victory , '' he say .
`` the valley ranch we 'd take free and clear as a booby prize .
personal reasons citing kenneth j. thygerson , who president of this thrift holding company was named in august , resigned , .
to travel between the job in denver and his san diego home , he had planned but the commute too difficult to continue has found mr. thygerson said .
a new president was n't named .
the anc 's sisulu and seven other political prisoners south africa freed .
flags of the outlawed african national congress , many brandishing a tumultuous reception thousands of supporters , gave the anti-apartheid activists upon their return to black townships across the country .
equality for blacks in south africa was in reach the 77-year-old sisulu , sentenced along with black nationalist nelson mandela to life in 1964 for the government , to overthrow plotting said .
the releases , announced last week by president de klerk , was viewed as pretoria 's tacit legalization of the anc .
mandela , the most prominent leader of the anc , considered remain in prison .
but his release within the next few months is widely expected .
that thousands of tons of goods widespread shortages across the nation to ease needed was piled up at ports and rail depots , and food shipments was rotting because of a lack of people and equipment the cargo to move the soviet union reported .
strikes and mismanagement was cited , and premier ryzhkov warned of `` tough measures '' .
there might be `` room for flexibility '' in a bill federal funding of abortions for poor women who are vicitims of rape and incest to allow bush indicated .
his opposition to such funding , he reiterated but hope of a compromise expressed .
at a news conference friday , a call for the ouster of panama 's noriega the president , also renewed .
any right to abortion without the consent of their parents minors have n't the white house said .
the administration 's policy was stated in a friend-of-the-court brief the supreme court more leeway abortions to restrict to give states urging .
that the authority u.s. fugitives to seize overseas without the permission of foreign governments the fbi have been given the justice department announced .
that the new policy would n't be invoked by the bush administration without full consideration of foreign-policy implications secretary of state baker emphasized friday .
the space shuttle atlantis ready for launch tomorrow following a five-day postponement of the flight because of a faulty engine computer nasa pronounced .
the device was replaced .
the galileo space probe to dispatch on an exploration mission to jupiter the spacecraft 's five astronauts is .
south korea 's president roh for a five-day visit that to focus on ties between washington and seoul is expected traveled to the u.s. .
to meet with bush tomorrow roh , who calls for the reduction of u.s. military forces in south korea , is facing is and a joint session of congress to address on wednesday is .
the party to purge of `` hostile and anti-party elements '' and wealthy private businessmen , whom exploiters they called china 's communist leadership voted .
reported by the official xinhua news agency , that the crackdown prompted by student-led pro-democracy protests in june is intensifying the decision , indicated .
the number of emigres to flee to the west beginning today expected bringing to more than 1,200 hundreds of east germans flocked to bonn 's embassy in warsaw , .
more than 2,100 others escaped to west germany through hungary over the weekend .
in leipzig , street protests internal change to demand to continue activists vowed .
zaire 's president mobutu met in southern france with angolan rebel leader savimbi and a senior u.s. envoy in a bid an accord angola 's civil war to end to revive .
details of the talks , described by a zairean official as `` very delicate , '' was n't disclosed .
plo leader arafat insisted on guarantees that any elections in the israeli-occupied territories would be impartial .
his remarks he made to a plo gathering in baghdad .
in the occupied lands , a u.s. plan israeli-palestinian talks to arrange underground leaders of the arab uprising rejected as such discussions holding in cairo shamir opposed .
proposals for a new timetable for the withdrawal of syria 's forces from lebanon lebanese christian lawmakers presented to arab mediators at talks in saudi arabia .
two years to pull back to eastern lebanon , starting from the time political power for moslems beirut 's legislature increase a plan currently under study give damascus .
the texas-louisiana coast to swamp to combine with the highest tides of the year hurricane jerry threatened .
to evacuate thousands of residents of low-lying areas was ordered as the storm headed north in the gulf of mexico with 80 mph winds .
an association miami beach financier victor posner 's control of the restaurant chain to oppose they formed a group of arby 's franchisees said .
the decision is the latest move in an escalating battle between the franchisees and mr. posner that began in august .
at the time , more than $ 200 million a group r.b. partners ltd. , called consisting of eight of arby 's largest franchisees , offered arby 's inc. , which is part of dwg corp to buy .
dwg is a holding company controlled by mr. posner .
leonard h. roberts , president and chief executive officer of arby 's , one week later , was fired in a dispute with mr. posner .
friday , the formation of an association -- a.p. association inc. called -- `` the integrity of the arby 's system to preserve '' 42 franchisees announced .
`` that continued control of arby 's by victor posner is totally unacceptable to us , because it is extremely likely irreparable damage to the arby 's system to cause we have concluded the franchisees , owners or operators of 1,000 of the 1,900 franchised arby 's in the u.s. , said : .
all efforts victor posner to remove from control of arby 's inc. and the arby 's system we support '' .
royalty payments withholding and a class-action lawsuit court approval for the withholdings seeking initiating it would consider , among other things , the group said .
in florida , `` a winning system any individual or group should disrupt or illegally interfere with existing contractual relationships for their own self-serving motives we do n't think renee mottram , a senior vice president at dwg , responded : .
that inflation still persist , september 's steep rise in producer prices show and the pessimism over interest rates caused by the new price data contributed to the stock market 's plunge friday .
after falling for three consecutive months , 0.9 % the producer price index for finished goods shot up last month , the labor department reported friday , as energy prices jumped after tumbling through the summer .
although the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average , the report , which was released before the stock market opened , did n't trigger a role it did play in the market 's decline analysts said .
the price data , the grimmest inflation news in months , analysts immediately viewed as evidence that the federal reserve was unlikely interest rates to fall to allow as many investors had hoped .
the belief that pressures in the economy was sufficient the fed to keep from credit , easing further fueling that 0.5 % retail sales grew in september , to $ 145.21 billion the commerce department reported friday .
that rise came on top of a 0.7 % gain in august , and healthy consumer demand in the economy there is still suggested .
`` the belief that to be an imminent easing of monetary policy , there was going the friday report , combined with the actions of the fed , weakened i think '' robert dederick , chief economist at northern trust co. in chicago said .
but economists was divided over the extent of the inflation threat signaled by the new numbers .
`` the overall 0.9 % increase is serious in itself , but that excluding food and energy , the producer price index still increased by 0.7 % , what is even worse is '' gordon richards , an economist at the national association of manufacturers said .
but rising energy prices and the annual autumn increase in car prices sung won sohn , chief economist at norwest corp. in minneapolis , blamed for most of the september jump .
`` i would say this is not bad news ; this is a blip , '' he said .
`` the core rate is not really out of line '' .
all year , the producer price index , which changes in the prices producers receive for goods measure energy prices have skewed .
inflation unquestionably have fallen back from its torrid pace last winter , a steep run-up in world oil prices when sent the index surging at double-digit annual rates .
the index to decline for three consecutive months causing energy prices then plummeted through the summer , .
the index overall , have climbed at a 5.1 % compound annual rate since the start of the year , the labor department said .
this year 's good inflation news moreover , may have ended last month , 6.5 % energy prices when zoomed up after 7.3 % plunging in august .
oil prices relatively stable the future pace of inflation uncertain leaving to remain in the months ahead , some analysts expect .
that the climb in oil prices last month would lead to a substantial rise in the producer price index , analysts had expected but the 0.9 % climb was higher than most anticipated .
`` to continue for a few months , the resurgence -lcb- in inflation -rcb- is going i think '' john mueller , chief economist at bell mueller cannon , a washington economic forecasting firm said .
that inflation will moderate next year , that credit conditions is fairly tight world-wide saying he predicted .
but that `` last month 's rise is n't as bad an omen '' as the 0.9 % figure suggest dirk van dongen , president of the national association of wholesaler-distributors , said .
`` if the data you examine carefully , the increase is concentrated in energy and motor vehicle prices , rather than being a broad-based advance in the prices of consumer and industrial goods , '' he explained .
3.8 % passenger car prices jumped in september , after 0.5 % climbing in august and declining in the late spring and summer .
the september increase was a one-time event , coming as their 1990 models dealers introduced many analysts said .
although all the price data was adjusted for normal seasonal fluctuations , car prices rose beyond the customary autumn increase .
a hefty 1.1 % prices for capital equipment rose in september , while 1.1 % prices for home electronic equipment fell .
0.6 % , food prices declined after 0.3 % climbing in august .
that 0.8 % car sales rose in september to $ 32.82 billion the retail sales report meanwhile , showed .
but at least part of the increase could have come from higher prices , analysts said .
1.7 % sales at general merchandise stores rose after 0.6 % declining in august , while 1.8 % sales of building materials fell after 1.7 % rising .
0.4 % producer prices for intermediate goods grew in september , after dropping for three consecutive months .
1.1 % prices for crude goods , an array of raw materials , jumped after 1.9 % declining in august and 0.2 % edging up in july .
a loss of at least $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter to report it expect cityfed financial corp. said .
in the year-earlier period , net income of $ 485,000 , but no per-share earnings cityfed had .
the loss stem from several factors cityfed 's president and chief executive officer , john atherton , said .
nonperforming assets rose to slightly more than $ 700 million from $ 516 million between june and september he said .
approximately 85 % of the total consisted of nonperforming commercial real estate assets .
that between $ 85 million and $ 110 million it will provide for credit losses in the third quarter cityfed accordingly , estimated .
that significant additional loan-loss provisions may be required by federal regulators as part of the current annual examination of city federal savings bank , cityfed 's primary subsidiary , based in somerset , n.j cityfed added .
105 banking offices in new jersey and florida city federal operate .
its portfolio of high-yield corporate bonds cityfed will also mark to market as a result of federal legislation that themselves savings institutions divest of such bonds requiring mr. atherton said .
cityfed said , that action , will result in a charge against third-quarter results of approximately $ 30 million .
its remaining mortgage loan origination operations outside its principal markets in new jersey and florida to shed it expect and , as a result , a charge for discontinued operations is taking cityfed also said .
mr. atherton said , all these actions , will result in a loss of $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter .
`` depending on the resolution of certain accounting issues relating to mortgages servicing and the outcome of the annual examination of city federal currently in progress with respect to the appropriate level of loan loss reserves , this range the total loss for the quarter could significantly exceed he added however , : .
it dividend payments on its two classes of preferred stock , to suspend federal thrift regulators ordered that regulators ' concerns about the troubled institution have heightened indicating centrust savings bank said .
in a statement , the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent losses '' in its junk-bond portfolio the regulators cited in the suspension of the dividends ordering miami-based centrust said .
centrust the preferred stock buying back to stop regulators also ordered .
the federal office of thrift supervision , which the directive , issued david l. paul , chairman and chief executive officer , criticized it was `` inappropriate '' and based on `` insufficient '' reasons saying .
regulators the decision to reverse to get the thrift will try he said .
the suspension of a preferred stock dividend is a serious step that that deep concerns about an institution 's health regulators have signal .
in march , centrust a `` troubled institution , '' regulators labeled largely because of its big junk-bond holdings and its operating losses .
in the same month , the institution common stock dividends paying to stop until its operations was on track the office of thrift supervision ordered .
for the nine months ended june 30 , a net loss of $ 21.3 million , centrust had compared with year-earlier net income of $ 52.8 million .
one of the largest junk-bond portfolios of any thrift in the nation centrust , which is florida 's largest thrift , hold .
since april , its high-yield bond holdings it have pared to about $ 890 million from $ 1.35 billion .
only about $ 150 million of the current holdings are tradeable securities registered with the securities and exchange commission mr. paul said .
he said , the remainder , is commercial loan participations , or private placements , that is n't filed with the sec and a ready market do n't have .
centrust the office of thrift supervision have been hounding current market values to provide for its holdings , but such values it ca n't easily obtain because of the relative illiquidity of the bonds and lack of a ready market centrust have said .
increasingly antsy about centrust 's and other thrifts ' junk-bond holdings regulators have become in light of the recent federal thrift bailout legislation and the recent deep decline in the junk-bond market .
thrifts themselves to divest of junk bonds in the new , somber regulatory climate the legislation require .
in american stock exchange composite trading friday , centrust common shares closed down 12.5 cents at $ 3 , .
in a statement friday , the regulators ' decision , mr. paul challenged `` the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent '' junk-bond losses have been substantially offset by gains in other activities of the bank '' saying .
substantial reserves have been set aside for possible losses from the junk bonds he also said .
in the third quarter , for instance , $ 22.5 million centrust added to its general reserves .
the regulators should instead move ahead with centrust 's request 63 of its 71 branches to sell to great western bank , a unit of great western financial corp. based in beverly hills , calif approving mr. paul said .
the branch sale is the centerpiece of centrust 's strategy itself from a high-flying institution that relied heavily on securities trading for profits , to transform into a traditional s&l according to mr. paul .
a decision on the proposed transaction , which was announced in july , most analysts and thrift executives had expected long before now .
the delay many interpret as an indication that regulators is skeptical about the proposal .
branches and deposits can be sold at a premium in the event an institution federal regulators take over .
the branch sale , centrust , however , tout $ 150 million it would bring in and the thrift 's assets reduce to $ 6.7 billion from $ 9 billion saying .
positive tangible capital of $ 82 million , or about 1.2 % of assets , the sale would give it from a negative $ 33 million as of sept. 30 , centrust close to regulatory standards thus bringing it said .
the company 's large amount of good will the branch sale would also reduce by about $ 180 million centrust said .
centrust more dependent than ever on brokered deposits and junk bonds the branch sale will make critics , however , say .
mr. paul counters that the size of centrust to further pare by more than $ 1 billion of brokered certificates of deposit not renewing due they when come he intend .
its junk-bond portfolio to unload by the bonds , to sell off continuing the thrift is also working and some of them to eventually place in a separate affiliate , as required under the new thrift law it plan .
on a recent saturday night , in the midst of west germany 's most popular prime-time show , the host that any of 100 different cheeses she could name after just one nibble , while blindfolded a contestant bet .
the bet the woman won .
but perhaps even more remarkable , the top slot in the country 's tv ratings , the three-hour-show , `` wetten dass '' ( make a bet ) , regularly win as many as 50 % of west german households sometimes drawing .
as the 1992 economic integration approaches , quotas against such pop invaders as `` dallas , '' `` miami vice '' and `` l.a. law '' to impose threatening europe 's cultural curators have taken to the ramparts against american `` cultural imperialism , '' .
but every bit as cheesy as what to keep out they is trying much of what to protect the europeans want seems .
the most militant opposition to american tv imports from french television and movie producers , who quotas that a full 60 % of europe 's tv shows be produced in europe ensuring have demanded have come .
enough broad-based support to prevail to win the french so far , have failed .
one reason why a glance through the television listings and a few twists of the european television dial suggest .
while some popular action and drama series , there is the high culture and classy production values one might expect few boast .
more european air time is filled with low-budget game shows , variety hours , movies and talk shows , many of which are authorized knock-offs of their american counterparts .
a belgian to be italian pretending a flemish game show have as its host .
one of italy 's favorite shows , `` fantastico , '' a tepid variety show , is so popular that a chocolate product , `` cacao fantastico , '' whose praises was sung each week by dancing showgirls to buy viewers clamored -- though the product even did n't exist .
the cheese stunt , topping on another typical evening of fun on `` wetten dass , '' a bet with the show 's host , thomas gottschalk , that 300 german dialects he could identify over the telephone a contestant won .
a bet that $ 150 worth of quarters someone could pile up on a slanted coin a celebrity guest , u.s. ambassador to west germany richard burt , also won .
the penalty their combined weight in potato pancakes frying and selling to spend a day with west german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher agreeing mr. burt nonetheless paid as if he had lost , .
if this seem like pretty weak stuff around which the protectionist barriers , to raise it may be because all the protection they can get these shows need .
only their own local audience , and often only a small portion of that european programs usually target .
it mega-hits in germany or italy rarely make even to france or great britain , and almost never show up on u.s. screens .
attempts `` pan-european '' programs to produce have generally resulted in disappointment .
one annual co-production , the three-hour-long `` eurovision song contest , '' soft-rock songs from each of 20 european countries , featuring have been described as the world 's most boring tv show .
another , `` jeux sans frontieres , '' fools pointless tasks , performing villagers from assorted european countries where make of themselves is a hit in france .
a u.s.-made imitation under the title `` almost anything goes '' flopped fast .
a relatively small part of british air time the cream of the british crop , the literary dramas that is shown on u.s. public television as `` masterpiece theater , '' make up .
most british programming is more of an acquired taste .
`` one man and his dog , '' a herding contest among sheep dogs there is , for instance , .
riveting to the british hours of dart-throwing championships , even more hours of lawn bowling contests and still more hours of snooker marathons also is .
better , though still mixed , fortunes european drama have had .
the most popular such shows focus on narrow national concerns .
a good run in france , which ended after the female lead was injured in a real-life auto accident a french knock-off of `` dallas , '' `` chateauvallon '' called and set in a french vineyard , had .
`` schwarzwaldklinik , '' ( black forest clinic ) , a kind of german `` st . elsewhere '' set in a health spa , is popular in germany , and has spread into france .
italy 's most popular series is a drama `` la piovra , '' or `` the octopus , '' called which the fight of an idealistic young investigator in palermo against the mafia chronicle .
it was front-page news in italy earlier this year the fictional inspector when was gunned down in the series .
spain 's most popular mini-series this year was `` juncal , '' the story of an aging bullfighter .
`` the trend is pretty well established now that local programs is the most popular , with american programs second , '' brian wenham , a former director of programs for the british broadcasting corp say .
`` given a choice , a home-produced show everybody will watch '' .
the recent crusade more worthy shows of its own , programs with broader appeal to produce europe thus , have begun .
`` to start from scratch , writers and producers to train shows that to see , other people will want to make we have basically got '' colin young , head of britain 's national film theatre school concede .
while that advertising is the bane of television , some in the u.s. contend that to blame for the european tv industry 's sluggish development its absence is here many believe .
until recently , most of the air time national governments in europe controlled and little or no advertising allowed .
since production costs was guaranteed , it did n't matter that a program could n't be sold abroad or put into syndication , as most american programs is .
but not much money a situation that cheap-to-make talk and game shows , encouraged while expensive-to-produce dramas discouraging was spent either , on the shows , .
commercial channels now , however , is coming to most european countries , and at the same time , satellite and cable technology is spreading rapidly .
just last week , two commercial channels greece authorized for the first time ; commercial television to allow alongside its state channels spain earlier began .
the result is a new and huge appetite for programming .
what must be a baffling cultural mix to most of its audience sky channel , a british-based venture of australian-american press tycoon rupert murdoch , offer .
programs available obviously made cheaply from its boss 's other ventures the financially struggling station offer .
in a madrid hotel room the end of a badly acted series about a fishing boat on australia 's great barrier reef , a viewer recently , caught `` to stay tuned for the further adventures of skippy the kangaroo '' only to be urged by the british announcer .
lisa grishaw-mueller in bonn , laura colby in milan , tim carrington in london and carlta vitzhum in madrid contributed to this article .
an agreement their guided-missile divisions , to merge they is nearing collaboration between the two defense contractors greatly expanding british aerospace plc and france 's thomson-csf s.a. said .
combined annual sales of at least # 1.4 billion ( $ 2.17 billion ) the 50-50 joint venture , which eurodynamics , may be dubbed would have and would be among the world 's largest missile makers .
after two years of talks , plans for the venture is sufficiently advanced for french and british government clearance the companies to seek .
the companies hope for a final agreement by year-end .
the rapidly growing ties between the two companies , the venture would strengthen and them a leading force in european defense contracting make help .
in recent months , the once-balkanized world of european arms manufacture a string of cross-border mergers and joint ventures have reshaped .
british aerospace and french government-controlled thomson-csf already , collaborate on a british missile contract and on an air-traffic control radar system .
just last week a joint bid ferranti international signal plc , a smaller british defense contractor rocked by alleged accounting fraud at a u.s. unit to buy they may make they announced .
controversy the sudden romance of british aerospace and thomson-csf -- traditionally bitter competitors for middle east and third world weapons contracts -- is stirring in western europe 's defense industry .
their respective national rivals , including matra s.a. in france and britain 's general electric co. plc most threatened would be by closer british aerospace-thomson ties .
but forces their competitors as join neither matra nor gec -- unrelated to stamford , conn.-based general electric co. -- is sitting quietly by .
yesterday , that the ferranti fight , his company may join as part of a possible consortium that would bid against british aerospace and thomson-csf a source close to gec confirmed .
matra , britain 's dowty group plc , west germany 's daimler-benz ag , and france 's dassault group companies with which talks about a possible joint ferranti bid gec have had include .
but it may be weeks before whether to bid , gec and its potential partners decide the source indicated .
ferranti 's financial accounts , which # 215 million in fictitious contracts at a u.s. unit , international signal & control group , with which ferranti merged last year included auditors recently said to study gec plan first .
any gec bid also , might be blocked by british antitrust regulators ; ferranti is gec 's main competitor on several key defense-electronics contracts , and british defense ministry worries about concentration in the country 's defense industry its purchase by gec may heighten .
gec 's direct role in ferranti a consortium bid , however , would diminish and ministry officials might consequently appease .
unperturbed by the prospect of a fight with gec for ferranti a british aerospace spokeswoman appeared : `` competition is the name of the game , '' she said .
it is n't interested in ferranti at least one potential gec partner , matra , insist .
`` nothing about this affair , which us , do n't concern to say we have '' a matra official said sunday .
the british aerospace spokeswoman said , the missile venture , is a needed response to the `` new environment '' in defense contracting .
for both thomson and british aerospace , earnings in their home markets have come under pressure from increasingly tight-fisted defense ministries ; and middle east sales , a traditional mainstay for both companies ' exports , have been hurt by five years of weak oil prices .
the venture 's importance for thomson is great .
the future of its defense business depend on cooperation with other europeans building thomson feel .
the european defense industry is consolidating ; for instance , gec west germany 's siemens ag recently joined in a takeover of britain 's plessey co. , and messerschmitt-boelkow blohm g.m.b . h . to buy daimler-benz agreed
in missiles , thomson is already overshadowed by british aerospace and by its home rival , france 's aerospatiale s.a. ; to better compete , thomson officials say , a partnership they need .
50-50 ownership of the planned venture , to justify a cash payment thomson would make to british aerospace .
annual revenue of british aerospace 's missile business is about # 950 million , a thomson spokesman said .
its 17-year-old family of rapier surface-to-air missiles british aerospace 's chief missile products include .
with about half british aerospace 's annual revenue , the crotale surface-to-air missile family thomson missile products , include .
a proposed two-step , 830 million canadian-dollar ( us$ 705.6 million ) expansion of its system it will delay because canada 's output of crude oil is shrinking interprovincial pipe line co. said .
that about 1.64 million barrels a day 8 % lower than a previous estimate canadian oil output will total by 1991 , revised industry forecasts indicate interprovincial , canada 's biggest oil pipeline operator and a major transporter of crude to the u.s. , said .
about 1.69 million barrels a day canadian crude production averaged during 1989 's first half , about 1 % below the 1988 level .
`` the capability of existing fields oil to deliver is dropping , '' and oil exploration activity is also down dramatically , as their emphasis many producers shift to natural gas , ronald watkins , vice president for government and industry relations with interprovincial 's parent , interhome energy inc said .
volume on interprovincial 's system is down about 2 % since january and to fall further , is expected expansion unnecessary until perhaps the mid-1990s making mr. watkins said .
`` there has been a swing of the pendulum back to the gas side , '' he said .
the outlook for natural gas is better than it is for oil , many of canada 's oil and gas producers say and their exploration and development budgets have shifted accordingly .
the number of active drilling rigs in canada is down 30 % from a year ago , due to the increasing focus on gas exploration , and the number of completed oil wells is `` down more than that , '' robert feick , manager of crude oil with calgary 's independent petroleum association of canada , an industry group said .
the main reason for the production decline is shrinking output of light crude from mature , conventional fields in western canada mr. watkins said .
about 75 % of all crude produced in western canada , interprovincial transport and almost 60 % of interprovincial 's total volume consist of light crude .
about 600,000 barrels a day , or about 9.1 % of net u.s. crude imports , canada 's current oil exports to the u.s. total john lichtblau , president of the new york-based petroleum industry research foundation said .
canada that rank as the fourth-largest source of imported crude , behind saudi arabia , nigeria and mexico .
u.s. reliance on oil from overseas , particularly the middle east intensify canada 's declining crude output , combined with the fast-shrinking output of u.s. crude , will help mr. lichtblau said .
`` it be very much a growing concern .
'' but when something is inevitable , to live with it , you learn he said .
that by itself u.s. dependence on offshore crude , the delay of interprovincial 's proposed expansion wo n't increase however , since canadian imports is limited in any case by canada 's falling output mr. lichtblau stressed .
under terms of its proposed two-step expansion , which regulatory approval , would have required 200,000 barrels a day of additional capacity to add to its system , beginning with a modest expansion by 1991 interprovincial intended .
a capacity of 1.55 million barrels a day the system currently have .
that more than 50 % third-quarter earnings dropped from the previous quarter as a result of reduced sales volume and increased costs to report inland steel industries inc. expect .
in the second quarter , net income of $ 45.3 million or $ 1.25 a share , the steelmaker had including a pretax charge of $ 17 million related to the settlement of a suit , on sales of $ 1.11 billion .
shipments normal seasonal softness and lost orders caused by prolonged labor talks reduced by 200,000 tons in the latest quarter , compared with the second quarter the company said .
at the same time , the integrated-steel business was hurt by continued increases in materials costs and repair and maintenance expenses , as well as higher labor costs under its new contract .
the service-center business was hurt by reduced margins and start-up costs associated with its joseph t. ryerson & son unit .
some shipping-rate improvements to see in both the intergrated-steel and steel-service-center segments , which should result in improved results for the fourth quarter it is beginning the company said .
its third-quarter results will be announced later this week inland said .
in the year-earlier third quarter , when the industry was in the midst of a boom , net of $ 61 million , or $ 1.70 a share , the company had on sales of $ 1.02 billion .
in july , wall street the company stunned with the prediction that growth in the personal computer business overall would be only 10 % in 1990 , a modest increase when compared with the sizzling expansion of years past .
-- this taking as a sign that a broad industry slump was in the offing -- investors reacted by the company 's stock , which $ 3.25 lost that day to close at $ 52 in national over-the-counter trading selling .
but that was all of three months ago .
last week , revenue for its first quarter ended sept. 30 34 % to increase it expect microsoft said .
the company 's stock $ 6.50 to surge to close at $ 75.50 a share the announcement caused .
microsoft 's surprising strength is one example of the difficulty investors looking for reassurances about the financial health of the computer firms facing .
`` it be hard what to expect at this point , to know '' peter rogers , an analyst at robertson stephens & co said .
`` characterization the industry defy '' .
to illustrate , that of the 14 computer-related firms he follow , earnings below last year 's results , half will report for their most recent quarter and half above those results mr. rogers said .
among those companies a down quarter to have expected hewlett-packard co. , amdahl corp. and sun microsystems inc. , generally solid performers in the past is .
disappointing results to report international business machines corp. also is expected .
improved earnings to show for the period ended sept apple computer inc. , meanwhile , is expected .
another contradictory message come from businessland inc. , a computer retailer .
in july , that booming sales of new personal computers from apple and ibm had resulted in net income more than doubling for its fourth quarter ended june 30 to $ 7.4 million , or 23 cents a share the company reported .
this month , investors that expectations results for its first quarter ended sept. 30 had n't met businessland however , warned .
earnings of 14 to 17 cents a share , down from 25 cents a share in the year-earlier period it expect the company said .
while the earnings picture confuse , the major forces the industry to shape in the coming year expected is clearer observers say .
to war over standards companies will continue .
in computer publishing , adobe systems inc. , which software that the image produced by printers and displays control sell a battle over typefaces is hurting .
until recently , a lock on the market for image software , adobe had but last month apple , adobe 's biggest customer , and microsoft rebelled .
the two firms now is collaborating on an alternative to adobe 's approach , and they is likely ibm , the biggest seller of personal computers , to carry along with them analysts say .
strong the short-term outlook for adobe 's business , however , appear .
a new software program that 's being heralded as a boon for owners of low-end printers sold by apple to ship the company is beginning .
the program is aimed at the quality of printed material improving .
1,000 calls a day about the product the mountain view , calif. , company have been receiving since it was demonstrated several weeks ago at a computer publishing conference john warnock , adobe 's chief executive officer , said .
trouble for software firms generally competition between various operating systems , which the basic functions of a computer , control meanwhile , spell .
`` uncertainty it create and sales , usually slow down '' russ crabs , an analyst at soundview financial group said .
probably this is behind the expected weak performance of aldus corp. , maker of a widely used computer publishing program mr. crabs said .
aldus earnings of 21 cents a share on revenues of $ 19.5 million for its third quarter , compared with earnings of 30 cents a share on revenue of 20.4 million in the year-earlier period to report he expect .
aldus officials could n't be reached for comment .
on the other hand , increasingly irrelevant to grow the battle of the bus is expected .
a bus is the data highway within a computer .
one type of bus microchannel , called ibm is backing while another method the nine other leading computer makers , including h-p and compaq computer corp. , have chosen .
`` users do n't care about the bus , '' daniel benton , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co said .
he said for instance , four different buses apple 's family of macintosh computers , use `` and '' to mind no one seem .
the gap between winners and laggards will grow .
in personal computers , their hold on their business to tighten apple , compaq and ibm is expected .
at the same time , ground to lose second-tier firms will continue .
the personal computer business some lagging competitors even may leave altogether .
for instance , a candidate its troubled operation to sell wyse technology , is considered .
`` a distribution business , establishing wyse have done well but products that sell , they have n't delivered '' kimball brown , an analyst at prudential-bache securities said .
a loss of 12 cents a share for its quarter ended sept wyse , whose terminals business is strong , will report mr. brown estimate .
to eat away at the business of more traditional computer firms personal-computer makers will continue .
to increasingly take on functions carried out by more expensive minicomputers and mainframes ever-more powerful desk-top computers , designed with one or more microprocessors as their `` brains , '' is expected .
`` the guys that traditional hardware make is really being obsoleted by microprocessor-based machines , '' mr. benton said .
as a result of this trend , to counterattack with microprocessor-based systems of their own longtime powerhouses h-p , ibm and digital equipment corp. is scrambling .
but to act quickly they will have .
compaq a family of high-end personal computers to unveil later this year that are powerful enough to serve as the hub for communications within large networks of desk-top machines mr. benton expect .
this `` server '' market a raft of new computer companies also have targeted .
population drain end for midwestern states
a comeback iowa is making .
indiana , ohio and michigan so is .
the population of all four states is on the upswing , according to new census bureau estimates , following declines throughout the early 1980s .
to be sure , the gains , is rather small .
for instance , its population grow by 11,000 people , or 0.4 % , between 1987 and 1988 , iowa , saw the census bureau say .
still , even that modest increase is good news for a state that had n't grown at all since 1981 .
between 1987 and 1988 , north dakota was the only state in the midwest population , to lose a loss of 4,000 people .
its own the northeast have been holding in the population race .
seven of nine states including new york , which 4 % of its population lost during the 1970s have grown each year since 1980 , .
and although slight declines pennsylvania and massachusetts suffered earlier in the decade , they is growing again .
at the same time , their own population turnaround several states in the south and west have had .
population seven states that grew in the early 1980s is now losing -- west virginia , mississippi , louisiana , oklahoma , montana , wyoming and alaska .
the northeast and midwest , the south and west overall , though , still outpace and that the pattern will continue fast-growing states like florida and california ensure .
but narrowing the growth gap between the sun belt and other regions have clearly started .
thanks to modern medicine , old more couples is growing together .
that 64 % of people aged 65 to 74 was living up from 59 % in 1970 with a spouse in 1988 , a new census bureau study of the noninstitutionalized population show .
they be less likely to live alone , this do n't mean however .
that share have remained at about 24 % since 1970 .
in 1988 , 10 % of those aged 65 to 74 lived down from 15 % in 1970 with relatives other than spouses , .
as even older , people get widowed many become .
but even among those aged 75 and older , the share living with a spouse rose slightly , to 40 % in 1988 from 38 % in 1970 .
only 17 % of those aged 75 and older lived down from 26 % in 1970 with relatives other than spouses in 1988 , .
the likelihood of living alone beyond the age of 75 have increased to 40 % from 32 % .
independent more people is remaining longer presumably because they is better off physically and financially .
careers count most for the well-to-do
personal success and money many affluent people place above family .
the need to be successful in their jobs , they strongly felt two-thirds of respondents said while the need more time to spend with their families they strongly felt fewer than half said .
being successful in careers and the money they make spending are top priorities for this group .
unlike most studies of the affluent market , the super-rich this survey excluded .
average household income for the sample was $ 194,000 , and average net assets was reported as $ 775,000 .
to learn about one of today 's fastest-growing income groups , the upper-middle class the goal was .
although only 2 % of the population , they represent nearly one-third of discretionary income they control .
across the board , quality , these consumers value what they like just rather than what they need , buy and products that are distinctive appreciate .
despite their considerable incomes and assets , financially secure , 40 % of the respondents in the study do n't feel and that it they have made one-fourth do n't feel .
they is financially well off twenty percent do n't even feel .
they be more able than others about 40 % do n't feel .
while some guilt about being affluent , twothirds feel $ 2,500 or more only 25 % give to charity each year .
religious services thirty-five percent attend regularly ; at the same time , that in life one 's principles to compromise one sometimes have 60 % feel .
the number of women and minorities who jobs in top management in the nation 's largest banks hold have more than doubled since 1978 .
that 47 % of officials and managers in the top 50 banks , up from 33 % in 1978 women make up the american bankers association say .
the share of minorities in those positions have risen to 16 % from 12 % ... .
per-capita personal income in the u.s. grew faster than inflation last year , according to the bureau of economic analysis .
the amount of income divvied up for each man , woman and child was $ 16,489 in 1988 , up 6.6 % from $ 15,472 in 1987 .
per capita personal income ranged from $ 11,116 in mississippi to $ 23,059 in connecticut ... .
13.1 million students in college there is up 2 % from 1988 , this fall , the national center for education statistics estimates .
about 54 % is women , and 44 % is part-time students .
trouble this small dallas suburb 's got .
trouble with a capital t and that rhyme with p and that stand for pool .
the citizens of river city , iowa , prof. harold hill , the con man in meredith willson 's `` the music man , '' more than 30 years ago , warned against the game .
the town 's fanciest hotel , the grand kempinski , kindred spirits on addison 's town council now have barred from three free pool tables installing in its new lounge .
they was worried about a precedent that pool halls would permit along addison 's main street setting mayor lynn spruill and two members of the council said .
and that `` alcohol to betting , which lead to fights lead '' the mayor , in an admonition that a rhythmic resemblance to prof. hill 's , bear warned .
the council 's action is yet another blow to a sport that its fans claim has been maligned unjustly for years .
`` obviously they be not in touch with what 's going on , '' tom manske , vice president of the national pocket billiards association say .
pool is hot in new york and chicago , he insist , tables `` upscale , suit-and-tie places '' where is adding .
with today 's tougher drunk driving laws , he add , `` to just sit around and drink people do n't want '' .
unlikely rowdy behavior besides , seem at the grand kempinski , $ 200 a night rooms where average and the cheap mixed drinks go for $ 3.50 a pop .
at the lounge , patrons in jeans , t-shirts or tennis shoes manager elizabeth dyer wo n't admit .
but those arguments a majority of the addison council did n't buy .
pool , introducing councilwoman riley reinker , argued would be `` dangerous .
a can of worms it would open '' .
addison is no stranger to cans of worms , either .
after suicide its previous mayor committed last year , that town officials regularly voted on their own projects , special favors gave to developer friends and dipped into the town 's coffers for trips and retreats an investigation disclosed .
town officials , the revelations embarrassed although that the problems was n't as severe as the media suggested they argued .
the pool flap now come .
`` some people worried about something pretty ridiculous , there be i think '' councilman john nolan say .
`` all care this was taken of in ` the music man i thought .
the only thing robert goldberg could praise about cbs 's new show `` island son '' ( leisure & arts , sept. 25 ) was the local color ; their homework neither he nor the producers of the show unfortunately have done .
a hawaiian shirt tucking in and its long sleeves rolling up richard chamberlain dress as a `` mainland haole , '' .
and the local expression for brother is `` brah , '' not `` bruddah . ''
and if flowers a nurse even would wear in her hair while on duty , if she was engaged them to wear behind her left , not right , ear she would know .
sorry , the one redeeming quality of genuine local color the show do not even have .
or it so must seem to jackie mason , the veteran jewish comedian appearing in a new abc sitcom airing on tuesday nights ( 9:30-10 p.m. edt ) .
not only mr. mason is the star of `` chicken soup , '' he be also the inheritor of a comedic tradition dating back to `` duck soup , '' and he be currently a man in hot water .
in neutral language , the gist of mr. mason 's remarks , quoted first in the village voice while he was a paid spokesman for the rudolph giuliani mayoral campaign , and then in newsweek after company he and the campaign parted here , is .
that guilty toward blacks , many jewish voters feel so black candidates they support uncritically mr. mason said .
that bitter many black voters feel about racial discrimination , so black candidates they , too , support uncritically he said .
that more jews have contributed to black causes over the years than vice versa he said .
of course , neutral language mr. mason did not use .
as a practitioner of ethnic humor from the old days on the borscht belt , live television and the nightclub circuit , mr. mason instinctively reached for the vernacular .
jews was `` sick with complexes '' he said ; and david dinkins , mr. giuliani 's black opponent , `` a fancy shvartze with a mustache '' he called .
if less derogatory language mr. mason had used his amateur analysis of the voting behavior of his fellow new yorkers , to articulate would the water be quite so hot ?
because to distinguish between the substance of his comments and the fact that insulting language he used it few or none of the people upset by mr. mason 's remarks probably would , have bothered .
in addition , that his type of ethnic humor is itself a form of racism some of mr. mason 's critics have implied .
for example , that mr. mason is `` like a dinosaur the new york state counsel for the naacp said .
the place he where is stuck people is fast leaving '' .
between the type of ethnic humor that aim at another group , disparaging such as `` polish jokes '' ; and the type that is double-edged , aiming inward as well as outward to distinguish these critics fail .
typically the latter is the humor of the underdog , and it was perfected by both blacks and jews on the minstrel and vaudeville stage as a means of their white and gentile audiences along with themselves mocking .
in the hands of a zealot like lenny bruce , both the self and the audience this double-edged blade could cut to ribbons .
but wielded by a pro like jackie mason , it is a constructive form of mischief .
because despite all the media prattle about comedy and politics not mixing , they is similar in one respect : both can serve as mechanisms for tensions easing and the co-existence of groups in conflict facilitating .
that be why it be dangerous on college campuses and elsewhere , all critical mention of group differences well-intentioned thought police , taboo to have .
as elizabeth kristol wrote in the new york times just before the mason donnybrook , `` intolerance perhaps would not boil over with such intensity if to simmer honest differences was allowed '' .
if group conflicts still exist ( as they undeniably do ) , and if mr. mason 's type of ethnic humor is passe , what other means we then do have for steam letting off ? the question is ,
do n't say the tv sitcom , because to be a genre in its desperate need everybody to attract and nobody , offend politics that , resembles more than it does comedy that happen .
it is true that group differences to simmer the best sitcoms do allow : yuppies vs. blue-collar bostonians in `` cheers '' ; children vs. adults in `` the cosby show '' .
but these is not the differences that headlines make .
in `` chicken soup , '' jackie , a jewish bachelor maddie ( lynn redgrave ) , an irish widow and mother of three , courting against the wishes of his mother ( rita karin ) and her brother michael ( brandon maggart ) mr. mason play .
it 's worth noting that both disapproving relatives is immigrants .
at least , both they speak with strong accents , as jackie and maddie do .
it could n't be more obvious that `` chicken soup '' is being made from an old recipe .
and a safe one -- imagine if the romance in question was between an orthodox jew and a member of the nation of islam .
the theme of courtship between the assimilated offspring of jewish and irish immigrants so popular that a plagiarism suit its author , anne nichols , lost on the grounds that the public domain the plot have entered the play and movie versions of `` abie 's irish rose '' back in the 1920s , made .
and it have remained there , as evidenced by its reappearance in a 1972 cbs sitcom `` bridget loves bernie , '' called that it led to the real-life marriage of meredith baxter and david birney whose sole distinction was .
whether the pot will boil over , but whether it will simmer at all the question with `` chicken soup '' clearly , is not .
part of the problem is the tendency of all sitcoms , ever since the didactic days of norman lear , to preach about social issues .
to some extent , this tendency emerge us to enlighten about ethnic stereotypes by them reversing the show whenever try .
for instance , jackie michael dislike not because he be a shrewd jewish businessman , but because his well-paying job as a salesman he quit in order a social worker to become .
even more problematic the incompatibility between sitcom preachiness and mr. mason 's comic persona is .
the best moments in the show occur at the beginning and the end ( and occasionally in the middle ) , mr. mason when slip into his standup mode and starts that old-fashioned jewish mischief meting out to other people as well as to himself .
but spark these routines too often , lack because like all sitcoms , this sitcom , is timid about mr. mason 's stock in trade - ethnic differences confronting .
that episodes about topics like the catholic-jewish dispute over the carmelite convent at auschwitz putting together the producers start i be not suggesting .
like racial tensions in new york city , to cool down , not heat up , that issue , will have before it can simmer .
but that mr. mason his classic shtik with some line about `` caring for other people '' that shmaltzy would sound on the lips of miss america to interrupt requiring they stop i be suggesting .
a 60-year history of calm , the official white house reaction to a plunge in stock prices have right up through friday .
that `` any fundamental change in the condition of the economy the stock-market decline do n't signal '' treasury secretary nicholas brady said in a statement friday .
he added , `` well-balanced `` the economy , '' remain and the outlook is for continued moderate growth '' .
here be what ronald reagan said after the 1987 crash : `` sound the underlying economy remain .
nothing wrong with the economy there is ... all the indices is up '' .
after the 1929 crash , `` ... the fundamental business of the country is on a sound and prosperous basis herbert hoover said : .
president and chief executive officer of this maker of magnetic recording heads for disk drives james robinson , 57 years old , was elected .
charles j. lawson jr. , 68 , who had been acting chief executive since june 14 , will continue as chairman .
the former president and chief executive , eric w. markrud , resigned in june .
open the possibility of a gains tax reduction enacting this year the senate 's decision a bare-bones deficit-reduction bill without a capital-gains tax cut to approve still leave .
late friday night , an estimated $ 13.5 billion measure that of hundreds of provisions that would have widened , rather than narrowed , the federal budget deficit had been stripped to approve the senate voted 87-7 .
the bill lawmakers drastically streamlined criticism that it was bloated with special-interest tax breaks and spending increases to blunt .
`` a deficit-reduction bill we be putting back in the category of being a deficit-reduction bill , '' senate budget committee chairman james sasser ( d. , tenn . ) said .
but that that some of the measures that had been cast aside , including a capital-gains tax cut could carry other bills would soon be moving through congress senate supporters of the trimmer legislation said .
in addition , a capital-gains provision the companion deficit-reduction bill already passed by the house include .
house-senate negotiations is likely to begin at midweek and last for a while .
`` exactly what will happen on the house side , no one can predict '' senate minority leader robert dole ( r. , kan . ) said .
but , he added , `` capital-gains reform to get this year republicans and democrats will work together i believe '' .
reporters that the capital-gains cut to keep in the final version of the bill the administration would n't push white house budget director richard darman told yesterday .
`` this we do n't need as a way capital gains , to get '' he said .
`` if that 's the signal that comes from the white house , that will help a great deal '' house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) said in an interview , .
the senate 's decision was a setback for president bush and approval of a capital-gains tax cut less certain this year will make .
hardball opponents of the cut is playing .
he was `` confident '' that a capital-gains tax cut any house-senate agreement on the deficit-reduction legislation would n't include senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) said .
and any `` plans another tax bill that a gains tax cut could carry to produce this year '' there is n't a senior aide to the house ways and means committee , tax legislation where originate , said .
one obvious place a capital-gains tax cut , and perhaps other popular items stripped from the deficit-reduction bill , to attach is the legislation the federal borrowing limit to raise .
such legislation must be enacted by the end of the month .
the senate bill was pared back in an attempt deficit-reduction to speed through congress .
because the legislation have n't been completed , across-the-board spending cuts mandated by the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law to enact president bush have until midnight tonight .
that the house to agree to the streamlined bill the need those cuts to avoid will pressure senators hope .
reluctant the senators to join the house appear .
whether house republicans is willing to acquiesce to their senate colleagues ' decision many pet provisions to drop a key is .
`` although i be encouraged by the senate action , '' chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill . ) of the house ways and means committee , said `` it is uncertain whether a clean bill can be achieved in the upcoming conference with the senate . ''
what president bush think another big question hovering over the debate is .
a stripped-down bill without a guaranteed vote on his capital-gains tax cut he have been resisting .
but no way a procedural hurdle to overcome and the 60 votes the capital-gains issue to win on the floor , needed garner republican senators saw so they went ahead with the streamlined bill .
the senate bill was stripped of many popular , though revenue-losing , provisions , a number of which is included in the house-passed bill .
a child-care initiative and extensions of soon-to-expire tax breaks for low-income housing and research-and-development expenditures these include .
the house 's repeal of a law , section 89 , called that companies comparable health benefits to top paid executives to give rank-and-file workers compel also missing is from the senate bill .
one high-profile provision that was originally in the senate bill but was cut out because money it lost was the proposal by chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) of the senate finance committee the deduction for individual retirement accounts to expand .
that measure the senate will consider soon he hope mr. bentsen said .
to the delight of some doctors , a plan passed by the finance committee that the entire physician-reimbursement system under medicare would have overhauled the bill dropped .
to the detriment of many low-income people , efforts medicaid funding , especially in rural areas , to boost also was stricken .
so much , senators why was giving up asked `` we be looking like idiots new mexico sen. pete domenici , the ranking republican on the senate budget committee , said , .
things had just gone too far '' .
that sacrifice by every senator the move required sen. dole said .
it worked , others said , because no exceptions there was : all revenue-losing provisions was stricken .
a plan by its finance committee that the income threshold beyond which their social security benefits reduced senior citizens have would have increased the senate also dropped .
in addition , a plan permanent a 3 % excise tax on long-distance telephone calls to make the bill dropped .
a plan that what remains of the completed-contract method of accounting , which their tax burden to reduce is used by military contractors would have repealed it no longer include .
a provision that corporations excess pension funds to use health benefits to pay for current retirees would have permitted it also drop .
a fivefold increase in the maximum occupational safety and health administration penalties , which $ 65 million would have raised in fiscal 1990 also stricken was .
a provision that the social security administration an independent agency would have made was excised .
the approval of the senate bill was especially sweet for sen. mitchell , who the streamlining had proposed .
mr. mitchell 's relations with budget director darman , who pushed for a capital-gains cut to be added to the measure , have been strained since the maine democrat to bypass and deal with other lawmakers mr. darman chose earlier this year during a dispute over drug funding in the fiscal 1989 supplemental spending bill .
$ 5.3 billion in tax increases in fiscal 1990 , and $ 26 billion over five years the deficit reduction bill contain .
the revenue-raising provisions , which mostly corporations , affect would :
-- mutual funds dividends paid to them on the date the dividends that is declared rather than received , to include in their taxable income effective the day after the tax bill is enacted require .
a 50 % exclusion given to banks on the interest from loans securities to acquire for an esop , used the measure repeal if less than 30 % of the employer 's stock the esop own .
spending cuts and increases in federal fees the measure also include .
a brief freeze the plan would impose on physician fees next year .
a similar provision is in the house version .
-- authority for $ 239 million the federal aviation administration to raise by fees charging for commercial airline-landing rights at new york 's laguardia and john f. kennedy international airports , o'hare international airport in chicago and national airport in washington .
john e. yang contributed to this article .
in response to your overly optimistic , outdated piece on unemployment how long last ( people patterns , sept. 20 ) : i am in the communications field , above entry level .
i was laid off in august 1988 , and after a thorough and exhausting job search , was hired in august 1989 .
my unemployment insurance ran out before a job i found ; cutbacks and layoffs i found in many companies .
the statistics quoted by the `` new '' census bureau report ( garnered from 1984 to 1986 ) is out of date , certainly as an average for the northeast , and possibly for the rest of the country .
that to be an underlying attitude your readers to tell all is well -- if you 're getting laid off do n't worry , and if you 're unemployed , it be a seller 's market there seemed what me bothered most about the piece was i think .
a serious reality check your paper need .
bull hn information systems inc. is a u.s. majority-owned unit of cie. des machines bull .
in friday 's edition , the name of the unit was misstated .
its rating on $ 165 million of subordinated debt of this beverly hills , calif. , thrift , it reduced turmoil in the market for low-grade , high-yield securities citing moody 's investors service said .
its rating on the thrift 's subordinated debt it reduced to b-2 from ba-2 and the debt will keep under review for possible further downgrade the agency said .
columbia savings is a major holder of so-called junk bonds .
that themselves all thrifts divest of such speculative securities over a period of years new federal legislation require .
columbia savings officials was n't available for comment on the downgrade .
its rating it downgraded to b-2 from ba-3 on less than $ 20 million of this thrift 's senior subordinated notes moody 's investors service inc. said .
franklin 's `` troubled diversification record in the securities business '' was one reason for the downgrade , the troubles at its l.f. rothschild subsidiary and the possible sale of other subsidiaries citing the rating concern said .
`` concern that we was getting out of all these , they perhaps had '' franklin president duane h. hall said .
`` it was a little premature on their part i think .
safe to go back into stocks , it just when seemed another severe attack of nerves wall street suffered .
another black monday is coming this do signal ?
or this is an extraordinary buying opportunity , like to be oct. 19 , 1987 , just eventually turned out ?
`` i 'm the only one who there would be an october massacre , said all through late august and september , '' mr. granville , once a widely followed market guru and still a well-known newsletter writer say .
`` you that this time is different from 1987 , everyone will tell '' he say .
`` well , in some ways it is different , but technically it is just the same .
me to get the hell out and stay out they right now be telling .
no major support until 2200 i see .
a possibility of going to 2200 this month i see '' .
he would n't even think of buying until 52-week lows at least 600 to 700 stocks have hit mr. granville say ; new lows about 100 stocks hit friday .
he say , `` no idea what like a massacre pattern look `` most people , '' have '' .
a quantitative analyst with shearson lehman hutton inc. , clients their money to take out of the market before the 1987 crash ms. garzarelli had warned .
she say , `` friday 's big drop , was not a crash .
this was an october massacre '' like those that occurred in 1978 and 1979 .
now , as in those two years , her stock market indicators is positive .
so the damage will be short-lived and contained she think .
`` those corrections lasted one to four weeks and the market took 10%-12 % down , '' she say .
`` this is exactly the same thing , as far as i be concerned . ''
thus , she say , if the dow jones industrial average dropped below 2450 , `` it would just be a fluke .
to buy my advice is '' .
as it , she calculate the average stock now sell for about 12.5 times companies ' earnings .
that ratio could climb to 14.5 , given current interest rates , and still be within the range of `` fair value '' she say .
the start of a bear market , friday 's fall mark mr. davis , president of ned davis research inc say .
but no 1987-style crash he expect mr. davis , whose views is widely respected by money managers , say .
`` a unique combination there was in 1987 , '' he say .
`` margin debt was at a record high .
tremendous public enthusiasm for stock mutual funds there was .
the main thing was portfolio insurance , '' a mechanical trading system an investor to protect against losses intended .
a hundred billion dollars in stock was subject '' to it .
in 1987 , such selling contributed to a snowball effect .
today could even be an up day , mr. davis say , if to refrain from program trading major brokerage firms agree .
over the next several months , bad things look he though , say .
`` the market will be heading down into november , i think '' he say .
`` a year-end rally , we will probably have and then go down again .
the downturn the dow jones industrial average to carry down to around 2000 sometime next year he expect .
`` that would be a normal bear market , '' he say .
`` that 's my forecast i guess '' .
`` the market is going through another october '87 i do n't think .
'' that be the case at all , i do n't think mr. cooperman , a partner at goldman , sachs & co. and chairman of goldman sachs asset management say .
this mr. cooperman see as a good time bargains , to pick up but any need to rush there be he do n't think .
`` the market weaker to open monday , i expect but some stability it then should find '' .
several major differences between now and two years ago he tick off .
unlike 1987 , interest rates have been falling this year .
and unlike 1987 , to be in any danger of overheating the economy do n't appear .
but `` the outlook for corporate profits is n't good , '' the economy 's slower growth this year also mean he say .
`` so it be a very mixed bag . ''
thus , he conclude , `` this is not a good environment to be fully invested in stocks '' .
`` if i had come into friday on margin or with very little cash in the portfolios , any buying i would not do .
but we came into friday with a conservative portfolio , so some modest buying to do '' on behalf of clients i would look .
to look for some of the better-known companies that got clocked '' friday we be going .
`` this is the latest manifestation of the capacity of the financial community for recurrent insanity , '' mr. galbraith , an economist say .
`` this i see as a reaction to the whole junk bond explosion , '' he say .
`` a lot of insecure securities the explosion of junk bonds and takeovers have lodged in the hands of investors and the corporations that are the objects of takeovers or feared takeovers loaded with huge amounts of debt rather than equity .
both investors uneasy and the corporations more vulnerable this have made '' .
likely a depression do n't appear he nevertheless , say .
`` more resiliency in the economy at large than we commonly suppose , there is '' he say .
`` more error it take now a major depression to have than back in the thirties -- as the financial community and the government much may try '' .
that takeovers is n't totally gone new york money manager mario gabelli , an expert at takeover candidates , spotting say .
`` companies to buy around the world , companies is still going '' he say .
`` ford looking at jaguar , bellsouth looking at lin broadcasting '' examples is .
junk bonds or big bank loans them , to finance these sorts of takeovers do n't require so mr. gabelli figures they will continue .
`` the market was up 35 % since office , -lcb- president -rcb- bush took '' mr. gabelli say , so to be expected a correction was .
another crash is `` unlikely , '' he think and `` he was nibbling '' at selected stocks during friday 's plunge say .
`` stocks that were thrown out just on an emotional basis is a great opportunity -lcb- this -rcb- week for guys like me , '' he say .
`` it that this is the pin that the balloon , have finally pricked seem to me '' says mr. rogers , a professor of finance at columbia university and former co-manager of one of the most successful hedge funds in history , quantum fund .
`` economic problems , financial problems '' ahead he see for the u.s. , with a fairly strong possibility of a recession .
`` friday dollars , you could n't sell '' he say .
`` a quote , dealers would give you but the trade to make then refuse '' .
what to do today mr. rogers wo n't decide until the london and tokyo markets how go he see .
that takeover-related stocks , investors sell but hang on to some other stocks -- especially utilities , which often do well during periods of economic weakness he recommend .
the 1987 crash to have predicted many people now claim .
it queens newsletter writer francis x. curzio actually did : that the dow jones industrial average was likely about 500 points to decline the following month he stated in writing in september 1987 .
a good deal what happen now will depend on the federal reserve board mr. curzio say .
if the discount rate it charge on loans to banks , it promptly cut he say , `` things that could quiet down '' .
if not , `` we could go very soon to 2200 '' .
`` some additional amount to go down stock prices would still have before positive on stocks , we become '' mr. terrizzi , president and managing director of renaissance investment management inc. in cincinnati say .
stiff criticism renaissance , which about $ 1.8 billion , manages drew from many clients earlier this year because it pulled entirely out of stocks at the beginning of the year and a strong rally thus missed .
its money renaissance is keeping entirely in cash equivalents , primarily u.s. treasury bills .
`` probably t-bills is the right place to be , '' he say .
1 . that your sept. 28 editorial `` kangaroo committees '' was factually inaccurate and deliberately misleading .
your editorial was factually accurate and deliberately elucidative i thought .
2 . that the rights of the witnesses the fifth amendment to take mr. lantos supported .
yes , he did .
as him i watched on c-span , those lovely words about the bill of rights , which he quote from the transcript of the hearings him speak i heard .
those nice platitudes he did repeat several times as an indication of his support for the constitution .
about 56 words the witnesses ' constitutional rights defending he used .
by my rough guess , better than 5,000 words scorn heaping on the witnesses for the fifth exercising he unfortunately , used .
his praise of constitutional meat he sandwiched between large loaves of bilious commentary .
as your editorial rightly pointed out , `` samuel pierce , former hud secretary , and lance wilson , mr. pierce 's former aide , is currently being held up to scorn for the fifth amendment taking .
'' certainly that is not the supposed `` distorted reading '' indicated by mr. lantos .
3 . that `` his committee do not deal with any possible criminal activity at hud .
we is not a court my colleagues and i fully realize ... etc '' .
by any `` reasonable '' man criterion , a whole bunch of people mr. lantos and his colleagues have tried and convicted .
their verdict apparently , is in .
evidence they right now be pursuing .
that be not a bad way to proceed , just somewhat different from standard american practice .
that practice how was referred to when i was in school ?
of course , mr. lantos doth protest that information his subcommittee simply seek for legislative change .
everything that mr. lantos say in his letter is partially true .
he be right about his subcommittee 's responsibilities it when come information to obtaining from prior hud officials .
but if his explanation of motivation is true , his investigation why is so oriented as criminal activity to identify ?
no , mr. lantos 's complaints simply wo n't wash .
4 . that `` the sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public that place took while mr. pierce was secretary of hud , '' the journal defend etc. and so forth .
no , to my mind , `` sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public trust the journal did not defend ... ''
appropriate constitutional safeguards and practical common sense it defended .
the problem , which the journal so rightly pointed out in a number of articles , is not the likes of mr. lantos , after all who is really a bit player on the stage , but the attempt by congress itself to enhance into a quasi-parliamentary/judicial body .
( of course , a judiciary that the same objective seek we have also got ) .
the system is the problem , not an individual member .
their hands slapped individuals can always have .
it 's such slapping when do n't occur trouble we that have got .
by any means hud management i do not defend .
but the kind of congressional investigation that has been pursued is a far greater danger to american notions of liberty and freedom than any incompetency ( and , yes , maybe criminality ) within hud could possibly generate i think .
the last time a similar congressional hearing i saw was his work `` tail '' gunner joe mccarthy when did .
i disagree with the statement by mr. lantos that an adverse inference one against former hud officials who their fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination assert in congressional hearings should not draw .
that `` to be a witness against himself no person shall be compelled , in any criminal case , '' the fifth amendment state in relevant part .
the drawing of an adverse inference against a criminal defendant who to testify choose not this privilege against self-incrimination preclude .
in a criminal case , a prosecutor thus , can not comment on a defendant 's failure to testify nor the stand to take as a witness , him `` the fifth to take '' thus forcing the defendant can be compelled .
the defendant to protect in criminal matters only the privilege , however , have been limited in accordance with its plain language .
that `` the inference the fifth amendment do not preclude the privilege where is claimed by a party to a civil cause '' the supreme court and some states have specifically recognized .
in a civil case , to testify or the fifth , take he may be forced a defendant thus , may be called as a witness , and the drawing of an adverse inference against him in the civil matter his taking of the fifth may permit .
the fifth he may take in a civil matter if a good faith and justifiable belief that him his testimony may subject to criminal prosecution he only have .
is the defendant the fifth to take allowing in a civil matter not based on a constitutional right to testify to refuse him one 's testimony where harm in the civil matter , but because the testimony in the civil matter could be unconstitutionally used against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution .
absent the risk of such prosecution , the defendant to testify a court may order .
the fifth mr. pierce when asserted in a noncriminal proceeding , after extensive advice from legal counsel , particularly presumably receiving that a good-faith , justifiable belief that his testimony could be used against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution he held one thus , must conclude .
every right the adverse inference to draw and to concur with mr. pierce 's own belief that him convict of a crime his testimony could help the subcommittee , congress and the american public have .
it was friday the 13th , and nearly 200 points the stock market plummeted .
or triskaidekaphobia -- fear of the number 13 -- is justified ?
in academia , a so-called friday the 13th effect have been set up and shot down by different professors .
evidence that the market is spooked by friday the 13th robert kolb and ricardo rodriguez , professors of finance at the university of miami , found .
but to be jinxed by an unlucky choice of data their study , which the 1962-85 period , spanned have since been shown .
in the '70s , falls the market took nine times in a row on friday the you-know-what .
but to be a plus , not a minus , for stocks , the date tend according to yale hirsch , a collector of stock market lore .
that higher than average returns -- higher even than fridays in general , which to be strong days for stock prices tend the 82 fridays the 13th in the 1940-1987 period had another study found .
on the only other friday the 13th this year , about four points the dow jones industrial average rose .
the original study , friday the 13th , part vii , titled was published tongue-in-cheek professor kolb say .
in a similar vein , that a part , the anniversary of the 1987 crash and saturday 's full moon could have played too , in friday 's market activity he add .
reminiscent of those during the 1987 crash -- that as stock prices plummeted and trading activity escalated , unanswered some phone calls to market makers in over-the-counter stocks went .
`` dealers their phones , to answer we could n't get '' robert king , senior vice president of otc trading at robinson-humphrey co. in atlanta said .
`` it was -lcb- like -rcb- the friday before black monday '' two years ago .
whether any effect unanswered phone calls had or not , nasdaq stocks sank far less than those on the new york and american exchanges .
its biggest point decline of the year and its sixth worst ever , the nasdaq composite index nonetheless , suffered 14.90 , or 3 % , diving to 467.29 .
ten points of the drop occurred during the last 45 minutes of trading .
by comparison , 5.8 % the new york stock exchange composite tumbled friday and 4 % the american stock exchange composite fell .
on oct. 16 , 1987 , 16.18 points , or 3.8 % , the nasdaq composite fell followed three days later by its devastating 46.12-point , or 11 % slide , .
friday 167.7 million shares , nasdaq volume totaled which was only the fifth busiest day so far this year .
the single-day record of 288 million shares was set on oct. 21 ,
`` there was n't a lot of volume because it was just impossible to get stock moved , '' e.e. `` buzzy '' geduld , president of herzog , heine , geduld , a new york company that markets make in thousands of otc issues said .
mr. king of robinson-humphrey and others was quick that the problem stemmed more from traders ' inability the volume of calls , to handle rather than a deliberate attempt trades making to avoid they believe to add .
the subject is a sore one for nasdaq and its market-making companies , which was widely criticized two years ago following complaints from investors who their brokers could n't reach or trade in the chaos of the crash .
`` it was the last hour of trading on a friday peter dapuzzo , head of retail equity trading at shearson lehman hutton , declared : .
too many phones ringing and too many things happening there was market makers to be as efficient as robots to expect .
it was n't intentional , we was all busy . ''
`` it was just like two years ago james tarantino , head of otc trading at hambrecht & quist in san francisco , said , .
the same thing to do at the same time everybody was trying '' .
that every order it received his company executed by the close of trading jeremiah mullins , the otc trading chief at dean witter reynolds in new york , said proudly .
but , he added , `` one call you can only take at a time '' .
supplies of stock market makers keep on hand orderly trading to maintain imbalances when occur .
when selling is so frenzied , prices fall steeply and fast .
faced with the possibility of heavy losses on the stocks in their inventories , shares , dumping the slide in otc stock prices exacerbating market makers themselves two years ago , began .
on friday , some market makers was selling again , traders said .
but , with profits sagging on wall street since the crash , smaller share stockpiles companies have kept on hand .
some prices fell without place , trades taking as the prices at which shares they would buy dropping market makers kept mr. tarantino of hambrecht & quist said .
`` everyone else 's bid , everyone was hitting '' he said .
while losses otc companies incurred on friday , the damage was n't as bad as it was in 1987 trading officials so , said .
`` huge inventories we two years ago was carrying and that was the big culprit .
'' i do n't know of anyone big inventories carrying now , mr. king of robinson-humphrey said .
that money piper jaffray actually made on friday tony cecin , head of equity trading at piper , jaffray & hopwood in minneapolis , said .
that his inventory is a third smaller now than it was two years ago , it helped he said .
that despite the rush of selling , the situation an `` emergency '' he never considered joseph hardiman , president of the national association of securities dealers , which the nasdaq computerized trading system , oversee said .
`` the pace of trading was orderly , '' he said .
`` nasdaq 's small order execution system worked beautifully , '' as the automated system for larger trades , did according to mr. hardiman .
many investors ' confidence the shock of another steep plunge in stock prices nevertheless , undoubtedly will shake .
in the past , the otc market thrived on a firm base of small-investor participation .
because nasdaq 's trading volume have n't returned to pre-crash levels , the damage wo n't be permanent traders and otc market officials hope .
but they is worried .
`` the public 's confidence to get back , we was just starting '' mr. mullins of dean witter lamented .
more troubling the prospect that the base of small-investor support to rebuild in the wake of the october 1987 crash the otc market was struggling the overall collapse in stock prices could permanently erode is .
investor fears some action from government policy makers would allay mr. cecin of piper jaffray say .
much more it wo n't take `` the hell to scare out of retail investors , '' he say .
on friday big and small institutional investors , as well as individual investors and market makers the sellers came from all corners of the otc market -- .
but the sell orders generally ranged from 20,000 shares to 50,000 shares , compared with blocks of 500,000 shares or more two years ago grateful traders said .
stock retail investors nervously sold friday and to bargain-hunt never returned shearson 's mr. dapuzzo said .
institutional investors , which stock had been selling throughout last week handsome gains made through the third quarter , to lock in was calmer .
`` a good amount of selling from institutions , but not as much panic , we had '' mr. dapuzzo said .
`` if they could n't sell , the shares some of them put back on the shelf '' .
in addition , he said , bids some otc stocks whose prices was beaten down to buy some bigger institutional investors placed .
in addition , occasional `` waves computer-guided program selling of otc stocks in the russell index of 2000 small stocks and the standard & poor 's 500-stock index sent `` through the market mr. dapuzzo said .
nasdaq 's biggest stocks was hammered .
4.2 % , or 19.76 , the nasdaq 100 index of the largest nonfinancial issues , including the big otc technology issues , tumbled to 449.33 .
2 % , or 9.31 , the nasdaq financial index of giant insurance and banking stocks dropped to 462.98 .
only a handful of takeover-related stocks the otc market have .
but they fell sharply .
for instance , lin broadcasting as well as metromedia 's new york city cellular telephone interests , to buy and in a separate transaction , certain mccaw properties sell to contel cellular mccaw cellular communications , have offered .
8 % , or 3 1/2 , mccaw lost to 40 .
5 1/2 , or 5 % , lin broadcasting , dropped to 107 1/2 .
the turnover in both issues was roughly normal .
on a day negative takeover-related news when did n't sit well with investors , it that its previously reported $ 27.50-a-share bid the company to buy to pursue it do n't plan haas & partners advised commercial intertech , a maker of engineered metal parts , said .
6 commercial intertech plummeted to 26 .
the issues of companies with ties to the junk bond market also tumbled friday .
on the otc market , 2 first executive , a big buyer of the high-risk , high-yield issues , slid to 12 1/4 .
among other otc issues , 2 1/8 intel , dropped to 33 7/8 ; 1 1/8 laidlaw transportation lost to 19 1/2 ; the american depositary receipts of jaguar was off 1/4 to 10 1/4 ; 2 1/4 mci communications slipped to 43 1/2 ; 3 apple computer fell to 45 3/4 and 2 1/4 nike dropped to 66 3/4 .
the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below is a guide to general levels but actual transactions do n't always represent .
the minimum unit is $ 100,000 .
these rate indications is n't directly comparable ; lending practices vary widely by location .
stocks scooping up during friday 's market rout they began pension funds , insurers and other behemoths of the investing world said .
and more to buy today they plan .
the latest war to be fighting by the lesson they learned in the october 1987 crash : buying at the bottom pays off applying many giant institutional investors rightly or wrongly , appear .
to be sure , their checkbooks big investors might put away in a hurry if stocks open sharply lower today .
they could still panic and bail out of the market .
but that stocks they wo n't abandon unless far worse conditions get their 1987 performance indicate .
`` last time , we got rewarded for going out and stocks buying when the panic was the worst , '' john w. rogers , president of chicago-based ariel capital management inc. , which $ 1.1 billion of stocks manage said .
half his cash on hand mr. rogers for `` our favorite stocks that have fallen apart '' spent friday .
the rest to invest if the market weaken further he expect .
denver-based portfolio manager james craig was n't daunted $ 40 million friday 's rout when shaved from the value of the $ 752 million janus fund he oversee .
`` sure all the program trades had kicked through , to make i waited '' he said .
he then jumped into the market :
`` $ 30 million i spent in the last half-hour '' .
their wallets other money managers also opened .
`` i was buying at the close ( friday ) and i 'll be buying again because good value , we be getting i know '' frederick a. moran , president of moran asset management inc. , greenwich , conn said .
`` no justification there is on the fundamental level for this crash '' .
market storms to ride out without stock jettisoning unlike mutual funds , which stockholdings to sell money , to withdraw investors when rush can be forced big investors such as pension funds and insurance companies can decide .
just that , they most often , do because to be the best-performing long-term investment , about $ 1 trillion attracting from pension funds alone stocks have proved .
`` if you bought after the crash , you did very very well off the bottom , '' stephen b. timbers , chief investment officer of chicago-based kemper financial services inc said .
for one , $ 1 billion the $ 56 billion california public employees retirement system , added two years ago to its stock portfolio .
`` institutional investors that to be long-term holders , they have and that they ca n't react to short-term events , good or bad , the last crash taught '' said stephen l. nesbitt , senior vice president for the pension consultants wilshire associates in santa monica , calif .
`` it , those that pulled out ( of stocks ) regretted `` so '' '' he said , any significant changes you 'll see in institutional portfolios as a result of friday 's decline i doubt .
investors ahead more than 20 % , well above the annual average for stocks over several decades even friday 's slump leave .
`` 400 points you could go down and a good year in the market , still have '' james d. awad , president of new york-based bmi capital corp said .
that `` 800 or 900 points the market could go down in the next few days mr. awad , however , worry .
it can happen before you can turn around '' .
many parallels with 1987 , including the emphasis on takeover stocks and the re-emergence of computerized program trading he discern he said .
he said , `` `` the only thing you do n't have , '' is the ` portfolio insurance ' phenomenon overlaid on the rest . ''
the portfolio insurance hedging technique , which the 1987 crash to have worsened is widely thought most institutional investors have abandoned .
not really insurance , the blow of declining stock prices to soften and an offsetting profit generate by waves of s&p futures contracts selling this tactic was designed .
in its severest test , the $ 60 billion of portfolio insurance in effect in the 1987 crash did n't work , as stock buyers disappeared and disconnected stock and futures prices became .
even without portfolio insurance , market conditions was grim friday , money managers said .
he was besieged by wall street firms friday him stock to take off their hands asking neil weisman , 85 % of its $ 220 million investment pool whose new york-based chilmark capital partners had converted to cash in recent months , said .
`` calls from big block houses us asking if bids to make on anything , we want we got '' mr. weisman , who , happy with his returns on investments chalked up earlier , the offers declined said .
to stabilize in the next few days stocks will appear before declining again , more investors trapping mr. weisman predict .
`` it will be a rigor mortis rally , i think '' he said .
a reprieve for money managers them whose investment styles had put at odds with the market rally friday meanwhile , brought .
especially gleeful the short sellers , who have been pounded by this year 's market climb was .
borrowed shares , the shorts sell to profit by them replacing later at a lower price hoping .
the nation 's largest short-selling operation is feshbach brothers , palo alto , calif. , which that losses of 10 % for the year its short positions had shown up to that point said last may .
`` we be ahead for the year because of friday , '' the firm 's kurt feshbach said .
`` a killing , we be not making but we had a good day .
evidence the agency have turned over in a criminal investigation vitarine pharmaceuticals inc. concerning to the u.s. attorney 's office in baltimore food and drug administration spokesman jeff nesbit said .
neither vitarine nor any of the springfield gardens , n.y. , company 's officials or employees have been charged with any crimes .
approval a version of a blood pressure medicine to market vitarine won but that a smithkline beecham plc product it substituted as its own in tests acknowledged .
bolar pharmaceutical co. its urinary tract antibiotic to recall at the retail level the fda have asked mr. nesbit also said .
but the company so far have n't complied with that request , the spokesman said .
two strengths of its version of macrodantin to recall `` as far down as direct customers , mostly wholesalers , '' bolar , the subject of a criminal investigation by the fda and the inspector general 's office of the health and human services department , only agreed mr. nesbit said .
a voluntary recall of both its 100 milligram and 50 milligram versions of the drug bolar , of copiague , n.y. , earlier began .
evidence it uncovered it presented to the company that the brand-name product bolar substituted for its own government approval generic versions of macrodantin to sell to gain indicating the fda have said .
that the brand-name product it switched for its own in such testing bolar have denied .
the legality of a widely employed anti-takeover defense of companies in the netherlands to challenge the west german retailer asko deutsche kaufhaus ag plan .
a landmark in dutch corporate law the eventual court decision could become because the lawsuit to file asko plan would be the first the entire principle and practice of voting preferred shares companies issuing to management-controlled trusts voting power of common stockholders to dilute to challenge .
only specific aspects of these defenses up to now have been challenged , though unsuccessfully , asko 's dutch lawyers noted .
the validity of this type of defense , the courts should uphold the court such a vote-diluting maneuver recently deployed by koninklijke ahold nv to overturn asko will then ask .
reasonable grounds preferred stock to issue to a friendly trust and the worth and voting power of asko and other shareholders thus dilute the dutch-based international food retailer had n't asko say .
speaking through its dutch lawyers , a 15 % stake in ahold it hold asko also disclosed .
a 13.6 % stake that was accumulated since july asko held it was previously thought .
his company is confident of its own position and the propriety of the preferred-share issue a spokesman for ahold said .
asko 's legal actions he termed as `` unproductive '' to international cooperation among european retailers .
chase manhattan bank chairman willard butcher is a conservative banker and a loyal republican , but on friday morning few kind words he had for president bush 's economic policy-making .
`` some very significant issues out there , such as the fiscal deficit , the trade deficit , our relations with japan , that to be the subject of major initiatives , have there is '' he said in an interview .
`` that initiative , to see i 'd like and i have n't .
a big shot , an agenda there is n't '' .
190 points the stock market a few hours later , dropped .
each other to finger for the blame , although that washington was singly responsible for wall street 's woes many analysts doubt politicians tried .
but clear : one thing some on wall street wonder if anyone is in charge of economic policy mr. butcher 's comments make .
-- by 11:59 p.m. tonight , $ 16 billion of automatic , across-the-board cuts in government spending to comply with the gramm-rudman budget law president bush must order .
the cuts is necessary because agreement on a deficit-cutting bill to reach congress and the administration have failed .
`` strong leadership the deficit to reduce and tough choices , make to try we simply do n't have '' house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) said yesterday on nbc news 's `` meet the press '' .
-- for the last two weeks , the bush administration and the federal reserve have been engaged in a semi-public battle over international economic policy .
the dollar to push lower the administration have been trying ; the fed have been resisting .
`` one of the things that me to worry continue is this monetary warfare between the treasury department and the federal reserve board , '' lawrence kudlow , a bear , stearns & co. economist , said on abc 's `` this week '' .
-- confusing signals about its response to a recent spate of airline takeovers the administration have sent out .
last month , northwest airlines a stake held by klm royal dutch airlines to reduce transportation secretary sam skinner forced .
but he have since run into opposition from the treasury and the white house over that decision .
and mum on a bid for united airlines , which a big stake by british airways plc include his decision how might affect he have kept .
uncertainty about washington 's anti-takeover policy was one reason financing for the united airlines takeover that fell through -- the event that the market drop triggered some analysts say .
in many ways , the backdrop to friday 's stock decline is eerily similar to that of october 1987 's 508-point crash .
then , as now , the budget debate was behind schedule and automatic spending cuts was within days of hold taking .
the treasury was locked in a battle over international economic policy , although at that time it was with west german officials rather than the federal reserve .
and markets nervous concern about official actions aimed at takeovers -- then by the tax-writing house ways and means committee rather than the transportation department -- was making .
the reagan administration and democratic lawmakers the 1987 crash brought to the table for the first budget summit , resulting in a two-year plan the deficit to reduce by more than $ 76 billion -- though the deficit even actually rose by nearly $ 12 billion during that period .
but , barring further drops in the market this week , likely a similar outcome do n't seem this year .
that by itself , friday 's drop , is n't enough both sides a deficit-reduction agreement that would be more serious and more far-reaching than last spring 's gimmick-ridden plan , which still is n't fully implemented to reach to try to force back to the table lawmakers and administration officials agree .
that , as everyone learned in 1987 , a one-day 508-point tumble the economy and the market can survive one of the biggest reasons that new talks is n't likely to come about is .
`` everybody thought we was looking at a repetition of 1929 , that we was looking at a recession , '' rep. panetta said yesterday in an interview .
`` that did not happen .
it they could survive without much problem they learned '' .
but administration officials with mr. panetta , who `` the president and congress a much harder look at fiscal policy to take to force a precipitous drop this week is going '' said privately agree .
`` an underlying concern on the part of the american people -- and there should be - that the administration have not gone far enough in this deficit cutting and that congress has been unwilling what us to cut , the administration asked to cut there is '' senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) said .
more than friday 's 190-point decline it nevertheless , clearly will take the bitter feelings that have developed between lawmakers and white house budget director richard darman over the capital-gains fight to overcome .
hill democrats is particularly angry over mr. bush 's claim that the capital-gains cut was part of april 's budget accord and his insistence on it combining with the deficit-reduction legislation .
`` no prospect of any so-called grand compromise or deal next year there is because the administration simply did n't live up to this year 's deal , '' senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) said yesterday on cbs news 's `` face the nation '' .
during last week 's maneuverings on the deficit-cutting bill and the capital-gains issue , signs that senate republicans and the administration was at odds there was .
at the very moment a deal capital gains to exclude from the deficit-reduction legislation , senate republicans that was negotiating reporters that it was the president 's policy it to include white house spokesman marlin fitzwater told .
capital gains to strip from the legislation , an agreement when was reached it oregon sen. bob packwood , the ranking gop member of the tax-writing senate finance committee , hailed .
asked if the administration agreed , `` to speak for itself the adminstration will have '' he curtly replied : .
action on the house and senate versions of the deficit-reduction measure , reconciling a process that to begin until tomorrow at the soonest is n't expected friday 's market tumble could spur .
the hope that the lead of the senate , which on friday a variety of spending measures and tax breaks that the fiscal 1990 deficit would have increased to drop agreed the house would follow senate republicans expressed .
`` a strong signal that we be serious about deficit reduction , the market need and the best way that to do is for their bill the house of representatives to strip of similar provisions , '' sen. warren rudman ( r. , n.h . ) said yesterday .
that the fiscal 1990 shortfall the house-passed deficit-reduction measure would cut by $ 6.2 billion , almost half of the congressional budget office 's estimate of $ 11.0 billion the white house office of management and budget , whether the gramm-rudman targets is met , whose calculations determine estimated .
that omb 's figure would still be enough permanent across-the-board cuts , to avoid rep. panetta said but `` very close to the margins we be getting here '' added : .
no one in washington was willing the blame for friday 's drop in the stock market provoking to take .
but some players was quick the moment to seize .
before the sun had set on friday , a statement the drop in stock prices attributing to the senate decision action on capital gains to postpone richard rahn , the supply-side chief economist of the u.s. chamber of commerce , issued .
`` investors , who assets had been holding in anticipation of a more favorable time to sell , was spooked , '' he said .
`` there have been many preposterous reasons advanced a capital-gains tax cut , to support '' sen. mitchell said during his television appearance , `` but that is perhaps more than any of the others i suggest .
the following u.s. treasury , corporate and municipal offerings is tentatively scheduled for sale this week , according to dow jones capital markets report :
their big institutional brethren small investors matched in anxiety over the weekend , but a philosophical approach to be taking most seemed and they was resigned the latest storm in the stock market to riding out said .
`` faith in the market , i be not losing '' boston lawyer christopher sullivan said as the market plunge he watched on a big screen in front of a brokerage firm .
but he be not so sure about everyone else .
`` on monday to panic and sell , the small ( investors ) are going i think '' mr. sullivan , amr corp. 's american airlines unit and several mutual funds whose investments include predicted .
`` and to come in and buy institutions is going i think ...
to hold on i be going .
if i sell now , a big loss i 'll take '' .
an optimism that had been rewarded the market they when did n't flee in 1987 some evinced .
`` oh , it 'll be up 50 points on monday , i bet '' lucy crump , a 78-year-old retired housewife in lexington , ky . said
mrs. crump said about one-third of its value her ashwood investment club 's portfolio lost following the black monday crash , `` but '' no one got discouraged , and that we gained back -- and more .
at the annual congress of the national association of investors corp. at the hyatt regency hotel in minneapolis , the scene was calm .
some 500 investors investor clubs from around the u.s. representing was attending to slide the market when started friday .
but no special bulletins or emergency meetings of the investors ' clubs is planned robert showalter , an official of the association , said .
`` advantage to take of it , we hope '' john snyder , a member of a los angeles investors ' club said .
four stocks to buy if the prices drop to the level he want he have in mind .
not everyone is reacting so calmly , however , and many wonder about the long-term implications of what is widely viewed as the cause of friday 's slide , reluctance by banks financing to provide for a buy-out of ual corp. , parent of united airlines .
the market drop is one of `` a tremendous number of signs that the leveraged take-out era is ending marc perkins , a tampa , fla. , investment banker , said .
no question that a general distaste for leverage there be among lenders there be .
'' that the market could be stabilized if california investor marvin davis step back in to the united bidding with an offer of $ 275 a share mr. perkins believe however , , .
she be generally skittish about the stock market and the takeover activity that it to fuel seem sara albert , a 34-year-old dallas law student , say .
`` this feeling that it be built on sand , she say , that the market rise `` but '' no foundation to it there be i have '' .
most of their investments she and her husband pulled out of the market after the 1987 crash , although some texaco stock she still own .
partly because of concern about the economy and because her job as a legal assistant she partly recently quit to go to school , `` to be a lot more liquid we want i think at this point '' .
how many more of these shocks the small investor can stand others wonder .
`` all october '87 was a one-time shot , we assumed '' san francisco attorney david greenberg said .
`` the little guy we told it could only happen once in a lifetime , come on back .
it now be happening again '' .
out mr. greenberg got just before the 1987 crash and , to his regret , never went back as the market even soared .
this time he be ready to buy in `` the panic when wear off '' .
`` this kind of thing happen very often we ca n't have he still , add : .
frightened , the little guy when get the big guys hurt badly .
merrill lynch ca n't survive without the little guy '' .
small investors have tiptoed back into the market following black monday , but mostly through mutual funds .
discount brokerage customers `` have been in the market somewhat but not whole hog like they was two years ago , '' leslie quick jr. , chairman of the quick & reilly discount brokerage firm say .
schwab customers `` have been neutral to cautious recently about stocks '' hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles scwhab corp. , say .
individual investors is still angry about program trading , mr. quackenbush say .
program trading to more closely control `` the confidence of the small investor to win back '' government regulators will have avner arbel , a cornell university finance professor , say .
but it be not only the stock market that some small investors worried has .
alan helfman , general sales manager of a chrysler dealership in houston , said some joint stock investments , he and his mother have but the overall economy is his chief worry .
`` a big bath these high rollers took today , '' he said in his showroom , which is within a few miles of the multi-million dollar homes of some of houston 's richest citizens .
`` and you that to come in tomorrow and a chrysler tc by maserati buy a high roller is n't going i can tell '' .
and , the gloaters finally , there was .
`` out i got in 1987 .
everything , '' pascal antori , an akron , ohio , plumbing contractor who chicago was visiting and stopped by fidelity investments ' lasalle street office said .
`` i how much would have lost to see i just stopped by '' .
in mr. antori would ever get back ?
it when come to money : once bitten , 2,000 times shy .
the crowded field for notebook-sized computers is about a lot more crowded to become .
immediate heat to put on others in the market , especially zenith electronics corp. , the current market leader , and on a swarm of promising start-ups compaq computer corp. 's long-awaited entry today into the notebook field is expected .
a trend toward downsizing in the personal computer market compaq 's series of notebooks extend .
a notepad , a clipboard-sized computer called one manufacturer already have produced and even smaller `` palmtops '' two others have introduced .
but novelties , those machines is still considered with keyboards only a munchkin could love and screens to match .
analysts say they be faster and more memory than anything else of their size on the market carry -- and they be priced aggressively at $ 2,400 to $ 5,000 .
all of this in a machine that only six pounds weigh and fit comfortably into most briefcases comes .
in recent months , all portables that approximately the same weigh and that notebooks are called perhaps misleadingly -- compaq 's competition , including zenith , toshiba corp. , tandy corp. and nec corp. have introduced .
that most such machines is about two inches thick , noting exception one analyst , take to the name .
`` this is n't quite a notebook -- it a phonebook , i call '' he say .
that ca n't be said of the $ 2,400 notepad computer introduced a few weeks ago by grid systems corp. , a unit of tandy .
instead of a keyboard , a writing surface , an electronic pen and the ability `` block printing to read '' it feature .
at 4 1/2 pounds , it may be too ambitiously named , but the kind of marketing possibilities that analysts froth make it nevertheless open up .
palmtops is n't far behind .
introduced two months ago in europe and in the u.s. in early september , less than a pound , atari corp. 's portfolio , weigh a mere $ 400 cost and run on three aa batteries , yet the power some spreadsheets and word processing programs to run have .
its ability commonplace programs to run is restricted by a limited memory some critics , however , say .
a much more sophisticated palmtop that lotus 1-2-3 and other sophisticated software programs , can run but five times as much cost poquet computer corp. , meanwhile , have introduced .
at stake what `` the holy grail of the computer industry '' mike swavely , compaq 's president of north america operations , call -- the search for `` a real computer in a package so small it you can take everywhere '' is .
the market is so new , how big it can be nobody know yet .
`` services how big it is , to find out to sell me a lot of people trying i have had '' tom humphries , director of marketing for grid say .
`` whether it be $ 5 billion or $ 3.5 billion , matter it do n't .
it be huge . ''
the growth of portables , which 12 % of all personal computer sales now comprise consider .
the fastest-growing personal computer segment , laptops -- generally anything under 15 pounds -- have become with sales doubling this year .
use of the faster , more powerful microprocessors found in increasing numbers of desktop machines it also have precluded .
screen displays size and weight considerations also have limited .
pretty petty the competitive sniping can get at times .
for example , the atari portfolio a poquet spokesman , criticize because three batteries it require while only two the poquet need .
both palmtops by notebook makers , who that they be too small -- a problem poquet also encountered in focus groups , gerry purdy , director of marketing admit argue is dismissed .
the `` gadget '' label , to avoid trying poquet , responded with the tag line , `` the poquet pc -- a very big computer '' .
despite the sniping , few question the inevitability of the move to small machines that compromises do n't make .
toward that end , place the real battle will take between center-stage players like toshiba , zenith and now compaq experts say .
a direct threat to start-up firms like dynabook inc. , which a computer that , like compaq 's , an intel 286 microprocessor use and a hard disk drive have introduced in june compaq 's new machines is considered .
but the dynabook product is twice as heavy and costs more than compaq 's .
trouble compaq 's announcement for zenith , which last year 28 % of the u.s. laptop market had but its computer business to sell to cie. des machines bull , the french government-owned computer maker recently agreed also spell .
zenith holders will vote in december on the proposed $ 635 million sale , a price that could slip because it is pegged to zenith 's share and sales .
aim compaq is already taking at zenith 's market share .
that an `` unconventional '' two-inch floppy disk , zenith 's $ 2,000 minisport use whereas the more common 3 1/2-inch disk compaq 's new machines use rod canion , compaq 's president and chief executive officer , note pointedly .
john p. frank , president of zenith data systems , simply shrugs off such criticism , that 3 1/2-inch floppies was also `` unconventional '' five-inch disks they when first replaced noting .
`` we do n't look at it as not being a standard , we look at it as a new standard , '' he argue .
that way analysts do n't see it .
`` that you to anyone who you this is dynamite for compaq and a stopper for everyone else , wo n't tell 'll talk i ca n't imagine '' gene talsky , president of professional marketing management inc say .
adds bill lempesis , senior industry analyst for dataquest , a high-technology market research firm : `` that these is very hot products we basically think .
that they wo n't be able enough of them to make the problem to have compaq is going is '' .
the 3 1/2-inch floppy disk drive , a backlit screen that is only 1/4-inch thick and an internal expansion slot for a modem -- in other words , almost all the capabilities of a typical office machine compaq 's machines include .
others undoubtedly will follow , but at least a six-month lead on the competition compaq have most analysts believe .
for example , the t-1000 , which is in the same weight class but is much slower and less memory , have and the t-1600 , which a 286 microprocessor , also use but which almost twice as much weigh and is three times the size toshiba 's line of portables , feature .
marketed in japan , the u.s. a third model , may hit by the end of the first quarter of 1990 , but by then , analysts say , itself compaq will have established as one of three major players .
analysts say , international business machines corp. , have been burned twice in the laptop market to enter trying and no signs of to get anytime soon into notebooks trying show .
air force contracts integrated circuits for use in space to develop honeywell inc. and international business machines corp. received .
$ 69.7 million , honeywell 's contract totaled and ibm 's $ 68.8 million .
a $ 46.7 million air force contract for cable systems for the minuteman missile developing boeing co. received .
a $ 29 million air force contract for electronic-warfare training sets general dynamics corp. received .
an $ 18.1 million navy contract aircraft electronics to upgrade grumman corp. received .
an $ 11.8 million army contract for helicopter engines avco corp. received .
spain 's september consumer price index 1.1 % to shoot up from the previous month , the annual rate of inflation pushing to 6.8 % , sharp increases in the price of fresh produce caused the national institute of statistics said friday .
the monthly increase is the highest recorded in the past four years .
a base of 100 set in 1983 the index , which 156.8 registered at the end of september , have and is n't seasonally adjusted .
5.9 % prices have risen in the first nine months of the year , both the initial 3 % inflation goal set by the government of socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez and the second , revised goal of 5.8 % outstripping .
in september 3.3 % japan 's wholesale prices rose from a year earlier and was up 0.4 % from the previous month , the bank of japan announced friday .
the wholesale price index stood at 90.1 , compared with a 1985 base of 100 .
52-week highs twenty-four new york stock exchange issues hit during friday 's trading , despite the dow jones industrial average 's 190.58-point plunge .
stocks of utilities held up relatively better than other market sectors during the sell-off .
and among the issues new highs hitting detroit edison co. and niagara mohawk power corp was .
american telephone & telegraph co. , westinghouse electric corp. , exxon corp. and cigna corp. , the big insurer other major issues highs hitting included .
of course , new lows many more issues -- 93 -- hit .
international business machines corp. , which during friday 's session traded below $ 100 a share for the first time since june 1984 these included .
ibm closed down $ 5.625 at $ 102 , .
navistar international corp. , union carbide corp. and bethlehem steel corp. , all of which are included in the industrial average other new lows included .
the cascading market two initial public offerings meanwhile , braved in their maiden day of national over-the-counter trading friday .
shares of rally 's inc. , an operator of fast-food restaurants , closed up from its $ 15 offering price at $ 17 each , and shares of employee benefit plans inc. , a health-care consultant , closed up from its $ 12 offering price at $ 14.125 , .
5 % of the shares in jaguar plc it acquired ford motor co. said .
jaguar , the london stock exchange and the u.s. securities and exchange commission is being notified of the transactions , the company said .
ford that any objection to the acquisition of as much as 15 % of jaguar shares it would n't raise the u.s. federal trade commission advised last week .
that as much as 15 % of the british luxury-car maker , the maximum allowed under current united kingdom government restrictions to buy it want the no. 2 auto maker disclosed last month .
the possibility of a joint venture with jaguar it had discussed before shares buying ford began general motors corp. said .
it still is talking with jaguar about a minority interest acquiring gm said .
investors who stock bought with borrowed money -- that is , `` on margin '' -- may be more worried than most following friday 's market drop .
that be because them some shares to sell or more cash the collateral their loans backing to enhance put up their brokers can require .
in october 1987 , to have contributed to the downward spiral of the stock market these margin calls was thought .
a margin call typically , occur the price of a stock when fall below 75 % of its original value .
if the extra cash the call , to satisfy the investor do n't put up the securities liquidating the brokerage firm may begin .
but major problems as a result of margin calls they do n't expect some big brokerage firms said .
margin calls since friday `` have been higher than usual , but reasonable , '' a spokesman for shearson lehman hutton inc. said .
`` margin calls -lcb- -rcb- to be as big a factor as in 1987 merrill lynch & co. officials do n't expect '' because stock fewer individual investors is buying on margin , a spokesman said .
any immediate problems with margin calls for schwab customers he did n't expect hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles schwab corp. , the san francisco-based discount brokerage firm , said .
he said margin requirements schwab had increased `` so '' more of a cushion customers have .
`` a lesson we learned in 1987 about volatility he added : .
rival hertz corp. 's lead , following it is backing out of frequent-flier programs with three airlines avis inc. , said .
contracts with nwa inc. 's northwest airlines unit , pan am corp. 's pan american world airways unit and midway airlines it wo n't renew at the end of this year the garden city , n.y. , car-rental company said .
but involved in programs with amr corp. 's american airlines unit and delta air lines it remain .
avis 's annual cost of all five programs industry estimates put at between $ 8 million and $ 14 million .
the costs a spokesman for avis would n't specify but the three airlines being dropped account for `` far less than half of the total '' said .
both no plans suit to follow they had budget rent a car corp. , of chicago , and national car rental systems inc. , of minneapolis , said .
in fact , some benefit involved in these programs , in which frequent-flier miles renters earn and car-rental discounts fliers can get to staying it saw budget indicated .
`` budget 's programs , this news by hertz and avis how can not benefit i can not see '' bob wilson , budget 's vice president , marketing planning said .
northwest and midway is two of the five airlines with which agreements budget have .
national also participate along with four other airlines , including delta and usair group inc. 's usair unit in the northwest frequent-flier program .
that its marketing agreements it would drop at year end with delta , america west and texas air corp. 's continental airlines and eastern airlines , and that pacts with american airlines , ual inc 's united airlines and usair also would be ended sometime after dec. 31 ... hertz , of park ridge , n.j. , a month ago , said .
at the time , its annual fees to those airlines amounted to $ 20 million and that $ 15 million the value of redeemed awards topped hertz said .
the numbers was that high analysts and competitors , however , doubt .
its frequent-flier costs is `` substantially '' below avis 's level budget said .
`` their value the proliferation and costs attached to -lcb- frequent-flier programs -rcb- have significantly diminished '' robert d. cardillo , avis vice president of marketing , said , .
this year has been difficult for both hertz and avis , charles finnie , car-rental industry analyst at alex . brown & sons said .
`` their costs to get down , they have been looking and this is a fairly sensible way it , to do '' he said .
`` the pat sajak show '' cbs inc. is cutting down to one hour from its current 90 minutes .
the move was n't a setback for the program , which is the network 's first entry into the late-night talk show format since 1972 cbs insisted .
`` every intention of this the best possible show making i have and it run one hour having is the best way to it , '' rod perth , who vice president of late night entertainment was named in august said .
`` the energy level of the show this will raise '' .
action-adventure shows the sajak hour to follow to program cbs will continue .
but its four-hour `` nightwatch '' cbs news will extend by 30 minutes and begin at 1:30 a.m .
despite a promising start , finishing far below `` tonight '' on nbc , a unit of general electric co. , and `` nightline '' on abc-tv , a unit of capital cities/abc inc the show , have slipped badly in the weekly ratings as compiled by a.c. nielsen co. , .
the late-night audience the addition of the `` arsenio hall show , '' syndicated by paramount communications inc further fractioning is .
to fight with international business machines corp. for a piece of the mainframe business , preparing higher revenue and earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended sept. 30 to post it expect tandem computers inc. , said .
revenue of about $ 450 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share to report it expect tandem said .
`` a continued improvement in our u.s. business , '' the results , which are in line with analysts ' estimates , reflect james treybig , tandem 's chief executive officer said .
in the year-earlier period , net income of $ 30.1 million , or 31 cents a share , on revenue of $ 383.9 million tandem reported .
the full results for the quarter to report next week tandem expect .
that revenue of $ 430 million to $ 460 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share the cupertino , calif. , company will report analysts have predicted .
commenting on the results for the quarter , the strength of the company 's domestic business came as `` a surprise '' to him , that our plan sales `` in every region of the u.s. '' exceeded noting mr. treybig said .
the company 's u.s. performance was helped by `` a record quarter for new customers , '' he said .
`` fault-tolerant '' computers -- machines with built-in backup systems -- that stock exchanges , networks of automatic tellers and other complex computer systems run tandem make .
tomorrow its most powerful computer ever , which for the first time it will bring into direct competition with makers of mainframe computers to announce the company is scheduled .
cyclone tandem 's new high-end computer is called .
prices for the machine , which can come in various configurations , is $ 2 million to $ 10 million .
the new computer a hefty slice of business to wrest away from ibm , the longtime leader in mainframes analysts expect .
`` perhaps two to three billion dollars they could siphon from ibm over the next few years , we believe '' said george weiss , an analyst at the gartner group .
tandem 's growth that will spur .
`` i 'd be disappointed if the company grew by less than 20 % next year , '' john levinson , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co said .
to respond to tandem 's cyclone by its own mainframes , discounting ibm is expected which are roughly three times the price of a comparable system from tandem analysts say .
`` bigger discounts ibm obviously can give immediately , to users '' mr. weiss said .
but mr. treybig questions whether that will be enough tandem 's first mainframe to stop from some of the functions that large organizations previously sought from big blue 's machines taking on .
`` the answer is n't price reductions , but new systems , '' he said .
a variety of challenges , the biggest being that the company 's computers customers generally view as complementary to ibm 's mainframes tandem nevertheless , face .
even mr. treybig is reluctant this notion , to abandon that tandem 's new machines is n't replacements for ibm 's mainframes insisting .
`` we be after a little bigger niche , '' he said .
to be good news for the economy the stock market 's swoon may turn out .
in one wild hour of trading , what to do , the bush administration have been trying unsuccessfully , for weeks to accomplish the market managed .
the federal reserve its grip on credit to ease it is forcing and the wind it took out of a previously irrepressible dollar .
american business -- indeed , the entire economy the resulting decline in interest rates and the value of the dollar could reinvigorate .
strangely optimistic this may sound .
after all , until a few years ago , the stock market was viewed as a barometer of the national economy .
it when went down , by all tradition , the economy followed .
that have changed , partly because the two years following the worst stock-market plunge in history have been reasonably comfortable .
the 1987 crash was `` a false alarm it , you however view '' university of chicago economist victor zarnowitz say .
increasingly disconnected from the rest of the nation the market seem .
its spasms ca n't be traced to fundamental business conditions , nor major shifts in the economy to presage they do appear .
`` a life of its own , the market today have '' john akers , chairman of international business machines corp. , said saturday .
`` nothing rational about this kind of action there be '' .
of course , the health of the economy will be threatened if to dive the market continue this week .
consumer wealth , sharply falling stock prices do reduce business confidence damage and the foreign investors upon whom the u.s. now rely for financial sustenance discourage .
the financial-services industry was battered by the 1987 crash .
what 's more , although the stock market is far less overvalued today than two years ago , the u.s. economy is weaker .
growth is slower .
profits is softer .
debt burdens is heavier .
but if to plummet , the stock market do n't continue the beneficial effects of lower interest rates and a lower dollar may well dominate .
money to pour into the economy if the markets to soothe needed the fed , which until friday moves credit , to ease had been resisting is now poised .
that a fundamental change in their interest-rate policies this do n't necessarily mean fed officials may protest .
but the fed is likely short-term interest rates to bring down in its effort markets to calm the experience of the 1987 crash suggest .
the fed 's move , anticipating a key interest rate known as the federal funds rate money traders lowered down from 8.820 % the day before to 8.625 % late friday , .
tiny movements in the rate , which what each other banks charge for overnight loans , is is usually among the few visible tracks that the fed leave on the monetary markets .
to decline the dollar also began friday as some investors their desire to invest in the u.s. to reassess the stock market 's plunge caused .
that the export boom that manufacturers have sustained for several years to extinguish threatening the dollar 's strength was out of whack with economic fundamentals , treasury officials have been arguing for months .
foreign investors that the treasury was right about the overpriced dollar the market drop have now apparently convinced .
a modest drop in the dollar -- only a modest one , you mind -- would be welcomed by the u.s. .
that was n't the case in 1987 , when the dollar was so weak that that panic among foreign investors producing and the flow of foreign capital to the u.s. diminishing it might collapse , some economists and government officials seriously worried .
another big difference between 1987 and 1989 is n't so comforting .
in the third quarter of 1987 , the economy spurted at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 5.3 % .
that a much more sluggish 2.3 % it in the third quarter of 1989 , which ended two weeks ago grew the consensus among economists is .
`` the plunge in stock prices is happening at a time the economy when have already slowed down , '' economist lawrence chimerine of wefa group , a bala cynwyd , pa. , forecasting company say .
`` a lot of pent-up demand is gone '' .
consumer spending did drop in the months following black monday 1987 -- `` but only slightly and for a short period of time , '' mr. zarnowitz , a longtime student of business cycles recall .
`` that was offset by strength elsewhere .
-lcb- -rcb- the effects was much less severe and less prolonged than some had feared or expected .
'' today , he fret , exports and business investment spending may be insufficient the slack to pick up if stock prices sink this week and if consumers retrench in reaction .
what 's more , the corporate borrowing binge have n't abated in the past two years .
`` two more years of significant accumulation of debt we have had ... just at the time earnings when is being squeezed , '' mr. chimerine note .
the more a company rely on borrowed money , the greater its sensitivity to an economic slowdown .
an unanticipated storm a company with a strong balance sheet can withstand ; a highly leveraged company may end up in bankruptcy court .
of course , that the fed , know very well -- hence its readiness credit to pump into the economy this morning .
but , in the process , inflation reigniting the fed risk .
even before friday 's events , that the fed wo n't be able to live up to its tough words on inflation eliminating because of its responsibility fragile financial markets , banks and highly leveraged corporations to protect harvard university economist benjamin friedman was arguing .
the biggest threat on the economic horizon right now is n't recession , he reason ; it be an outbreak of uncontrolled inflation .
in the end , the 1987 collapse suggested , the economy do n't move in lockstep with stock prices .
the economy do , however , depend on the confidence of businesses , consumers and foreign investors .
confidence a panic on wall street do n't exactly inspire .
that consumer confidence was high before friday surveys suggested .
a 190-point drop is n't likely much of a dent to make ; that multiply a few times over , though , and it will .
if the reactions of executives gathered saturday at hot springs , va. , for the business council meetings is typical , business leaders was n't overly rattled by friday 's decline .
and if a tad more cautious foreign investors become -- that it the u.s. can stand the dollar 's recent strength well , suggest .
on the bottom line , that we 've been through this before the most comforting fact for the economic outlook is .
two years ago , about the only point of comparison was the 1929 crash and the subsequent depression .
a receptive audience the doomsayers had .
a more optimistic view the prosperity that followed black monday permit today .
at the very least , comfort the establishment here is taking from the nation 's success in the last go-around handling .
as sen. lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) observed yesterday , `` a meltdown the fed avoided last time .
they is more sophisticated this time .
that profits eroded in the third quarter because of skidding prices in the commodity end of the business to report the chemical industry is expected .
sharp inventory cutting by buyers producers of commodity chemicals , the basic chemicals produced in huge volumes for other manufacturers , have seen .
once the chief beneficiaries of the industry 's now fading boom , these producers also will be reporting against exceptionally strong performances in the 1988 third quarter .
`` for some of these companies , this will be the first quarter with year-to-year negative comparisons , '' leonard bogner , a chemical industry analyst at prudential bache research say .
perhaps most prominent , that profit decreased in the latest quarter from a year earlier , if only by a shade to report dow chemical co. , which as of midyear eight consecutive record quarters , had racked up is expected .
though dow have aggressively diversified into specialty chemicals and pharmaceuticals , a big stake in polyethylene , which is used in packaging and housewares the company still have .
analysts ' third-quarter estimates for the midland , mich. , company is between $ 3.20 a share and $ 3.30 a share , compared with $ 3.36 a year ago , when profit was $ 632 million on sales of $ 4.15 billion .
to comment on the estimates a dow spokeswoman declined .
at the investment firm of smith barney , harris upham & co. , overall profit for 20 companies representative of the whole industry pulling down by 8 % to 10 % the commodity-chemical segment is seen .
`` the commodities off more than the others and the diversified companies about even or slightly better , you will find '' james wilbur , a smith barney analyst say .
that lower profit 10 of the 15 companies it follow will report first boston corp. project .
continuing gains , to report some industry giants still , is expected largely because so much of their business is outside commodity chemicals .
steady profit growth in white pigments , fibers and polymers to have had du pont co. is thought .
the wilmington , del. , company moreover , is helped prices when weaken on the commodity chemicals it buy for its own production needs , such as ethylene .
analysts is divided over whether much of a gain in the latest quarter from its conoco inc. oil company du pont will report .
in the 1988 third quarter , $ 461 million , or $ 1.91 a share , the company earned on sales of $ 7.99 billion .
to comment du pont declined .
higher profit , reporting to continue monsanto co. , too , is expected though its sales of crop chemicals even was hurt in the latest quarter by drought in northern europe and the western u.s. .
that losses in its g.d. searle & co. pharmaceutical business is narrowing to report again the st. louis-based company is expected .
to operate in the red searle continued through the first half of the year , but searle a profit for all of 1989 to post it expect monsanto have said .
most estimates for monsanto run between $ 1.70 and $ 2 a share .
third-quarter profit of $ 116 million , or $ 1.67 a share , on sales of $ 2.02 billion the company a year ago , posted .
to comment monsanto declined .
but the commodity-chemical producers is caught on the downside of a pricing cycle .
by some accounts on wall street and in the industry , the inventory reductions is near an end , which firmer demand may presage .
but pressure growing production capacity could keep on prices into the early 1990s doubters say .
in the latest quarter , to fall sharply profit at least , is expected .
for himont inc. , `` how far down it is , we do n't know , '' leslie ravitz at salomon brothers say .
the projections is in the neighborhood of 50 cents a share to 75 cents , compared with a restated $ 1.65 a share a year earlier , when profit was $ 107.8 million on sales of $ 435.5 million .
lower prices for its mainstay product , polypropylene , himont face while it go forward with a heavy capital investment program its raw material supply to bolster and new uses for polypropylene , the packaging and automobile industries whose markets include develop .
the company , based in wilmington , del. , is 81%-owned by montedison s.p . a. , milan , which an offer outstanding for the himont shares it do n't already own have .
at quantum chemical corp. , new york , the trouble is lower prices for polyethylene , higher debt costs and the idling of an important plant due to an explosion .
their estimates for quantum , some analysts hedge because it is n't known certain one-time charges the company when will book .
but the estimates range from break-even to 35 cents a share .
in the 1988 third quarter , $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , quantum earned on sales of $ 724.4 million .
profit of between $ 1 a share and $ 1.25 , compared with $ 1.56 a share a year earlier , $ 213 million the company when earned on sales of $ 2.11 billion to post another big polyethylene producer , union carbide corp. , is expected .
all to comment himont , quantum and union carbide declined .
the issue , which is puttable back to the company at par on oct. 15 , 1999 , was priced at a spread of 50 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
single-a-1 rated by moody 's investors service inc. and single-a by standard & poor 's corp. , the non-callable issue will be sold through underwriters led by merrill lynch capital markets .
the non-callable issue , which can be put back to the company in 1999 , was priced at 99 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
baa-1 rated by moody 's and triple-b-plus by s&p , the issue will be sold through underwriters led by morgan stanley & co .
backed by freddie mac 8 1/2 % securities with a weighted average remaining term to maturity of 28.4 years , the offering , series 102 , was priced before the market 's afternoon surge .
among classes for which details was available , yields ranged from 8.78 % , or 75 basis points over two-year treasury securities , to 10.05 % , or 200 basis points over 10-year treasurys .
the offering , series 101 , is backed by freddie mac 9 1/2 % securities .
pricing details was n't immediately available .
the agency 's first strips issue , collateralized by freddie mac 8 % securities pooled into a single security a giant , called will be divided into interest-only and principal-only securities .
the collateral is being sold by a thrift institution .
the principal-only securities into a freddie mac remic , series 103 , that six classes will have will be repackaged by bt securities .
the interest-only securities will be sold separately by bt securities .
the principal the principal-only securities pay from the underlying freddie mac 8 % securities , while only interest the interest-only securities pay .
8.45 % , to yield the principal-only securities was priced at 58 1/4 freddie mac said assuming an average life of eight years and a prepayment of 160 % of the psa model .
10.72 % to yield the interest-only securities was priced at 35 1/2 .
no major eurobond or foreign bond offerings there was in europe friday .
