no , was it n't black monday .
but while did n't fall apart the new york stock exchange friday as plunged 190.58 points -- most of it in the final hour -- the dow jones industrial average barely managed to stay this side of chaos it .
failed their first test , unable to cool the selling panic in both stocks and futures some `` circuit breakers '' installed after the october 1987 crash say traders , .
once again could n't handle the selling pressure the 49 stock specialist firms on the big board floor -- the buyers and sellers of last resort who was criticized after the 1987 crash -- .
say refused to step up to the plate to support the beleaguered floor traders by buying big blocks of stock , big investment banks traders .
relentlessly beat downward stocks heavy selling of standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures in chicago .
stopped trading seven big board stocks -- ual , amr , bankamerica , walt disney , capital cities/abc , philip morris and pacific telesis group -- and never resumed .
have already begun the finger-pointing .
`` was the equity market illiquid .
'' said once again -lcb- -rcb- was the specialists not able to handle the imbalances on the floor of the new york stock exchange , christopher pedersen , senior vice president at twenty-first securities corp .
countered `` is it easy to say is n't doing his job the specialist james maguire , chairman of specialists henderson brothers inc. : .
when is the dollar in a free-fall , ca n't stop it even central banks .
is calling speculators for a degree of liquidity that is not there in the market '' .
had already left their offices many money managers and some traders early friday afternoon on a warm autumn day -- because was the stock market so quiet .
in a lightning plunge , in barely an hour then surrendered about a third of their gains this year , the dow jones industrials chalking up a 190.58-point , or 6.9 % , loss on the day in gargantuan trading volume .
accelerated final-hour trading to 108.1 million shares , a record for the big board .
at the end of the day , was traded 251.2 million shares .
closed the dow jones industrials at 2569.26 .
was the dow 's decline second in point terms only to the 508-point black monday crash that occurred oct. 19 , 1987 .
in percentage terms , however , was the dow 's dive the 12th-worst ever and the sharpest since fell 156.83 , or 8 % , the market a week after black monday .
fell 22.6 % the dow on black monday .
was shares of ual , the parent of united airlines , extremely active all day friday , reacting to news and rumors about the proposed $ 6.79 billion buy-out of the airline by an employee-management group .
had placed unusually large bets that would succeed a takeover and would rise ual stock wall street 's takeover-stock speculators , or `` risk arbitragers , '' .
at 2:43 p.m. edt , came the sickening news : was halting trading in ual , the big board `` pending news '' .
said on the exchange floor , `` as soon as stopped trading , ual braced we for a panic , '' one top floor trader .
could be seen shaking their heads several traders when flashed the news .
for weeks , the market had been nervous about takeovers , after spurred concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers campeau corp. 's cash crunch .
and 10 minutes after the ual trading halt came news that could n't get financing for its bid the ual group .
at this point , was down about 35 points the dow .
crumbled the market .
could n't dump their ual stock arbitragers -- but rid themselves they of nearly every `` rumor '' stock had they .
for example , caused trading halts to be declared in usair group , which closed down 3 7/8 to 41 1/2 , delta air lines , which fell 7 3/4 to 69 1/4 , and philips industries , which sank 3 to 21 1/2 their selling .
eventually reopened these stocks .
but as spread panic , began to sell blue-chip stocks such as philip morris and international business machines to offset their losses speculators .
when was halted trading in philip morris , was trading down 3 3/8 , the stock at 41 , while closed 5 5/8 lower ibm at 102 .
snowballed selling because of waves of automatic `` stop-loss '' orders , which is triggered by computer when fall prices to certain levels .
said on the other hand , sat tight most of their major institutional investors , traders .
at 3:07 , now , took hold one of the market 's post-crash `` reforms '' as had plunged 12 points , equivalent to around a 100-point drop in the dow industrials the s&p 500 futures contract .
under an agreement signed by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange , was temporarily halted trading in chicago .
after the trading halt in the s&p 500 pit in chicago , continued to hit stocks themselves on the big board , waves of selling and continued to notch down prices specialists .
as a result , ripped apart the link between the futures and stock markets .
without the guidepost of stock-index futures -- the barometer of where think is headed the overall stock market traders -- was many traders afraid to trust stock prices quoted on the big board .
was even assailed the futures halt by big board floor traders .
said `` screwed up , things it '' one major specialist .
effectively halted one form of program trading , stock index arbitrage , that closely link the futures and stock markets , and has been blamed by some for the market 's big swings this confusion .
( in a stock-index arbitrage sell program , buy big baskets of stocks traders or sell and offset the trade in futures to lock in a price difference ) .
said `` when came through , the airline information cracked every model had we for the marketplace , it '' a managing director at one of the largest program-trading firms .
`` did n't even get a chance to do the programs wanted to do we we '' .
but kept falling stocks .
was the dow industrials down 55 points at 3 p.m. before the futures-trading halt .
at 3:30 p.m. , at the end of the `` cooling '' off period , was down 114.76 points the average .
during the the s&p trading halt , meanwhile , began piling up , s&p futures sell orders while kept falling sharply stocks in new york .
said `` worked well mechanically the circuit breaker big board chairman john j. phelan yesterday .
just think be it nonproductive at this point to get into a debate if would have helped things index arbitrage or hurt i '' .
under another post-crash system , ( was flying mr. phelan to bangkok as was falling the market ) was talking big board president richard grasso on an `` inter-exchange hot line '' to the other exchanges , the securities and exchange commission and the federal reserve board .
camped out he at a high-tech nerve center on the floor of the big board , where could watch updates on prices and pending stock orders he .
at about 3:30 p.m. edt , resumed trading , s&p futures and for a brief time started to come back in line the futures and stock markets .
stepped in to the futures pit buyers .
but weighed the build-up of s&p futures sell orders on the market , and began to fray again the link with stocks .
at about 3:45 , careened the s&p market to still another limit , of 30 points down , and was locked again trading .
say was signaling that could fall as much as 200 points the dow the s&p futures traders .
during this time , began ringing their brokers , wondering whether had begun another crash small investors .
thought this would be the final confidence-crusher at prudential-bache securities inc. , which is trying to cater to small investors , some demoralized brokers .
be that when took to declare that was the plunge only `` mechanical '' george l. ball , chairman of the prudential insurance co. of america unit , to the internal intercom system .
`` have a hunch that is this particular decline today something ` more ado about less i ' .
'' told it would be my inclination to advise clients not to sell , to look for an opportunity to buy , the brokers mr. ball .
at merrill lynch & co. , the nation 's biggest brokerage firm , was prepared a news release headlined `` merrill lynch comments on market drop '' .
cautioned that `` there is significant differences between the current environment and that of october 1987 '' and that there is still `` attractive investment opportunities '' in the stock market the release .
however , said that `` is going to set back relations with customers , friday 's plunge '' `` because reinforce the concern of volatility it jeffrey b. lane , president of shearson lehman hutton inc. , .
and think will harp a lot of people on program trading i .
be going to bring right back to the forefront the debate it '' .
as the dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss friday , stayed locked at its 30-point trading limit the s&p pit .
said was 2,000 s&p contracts for sale on the close , the equivalent of $ 330 million in stock jeffrey yass of program trader susquehanna investment group .
but there was no buyers .
said while involved mainly professional traders rather than investors , friday 's debacle left the market vulnerable to continued selling this morning , it traders .
settled stock-index futures contracts at much lower prices than indexes of the stock market itself .
at those levels , is set up to be hammered by index arbitragers , who lock in profits by buying futures when fall futures prices , and simultaneously sell off stocks stocks .
but know at what level will open the futures and stocks today nobody .
the de-linkage between the stock and futures markets friday will undoubtedly cause renewed debate about whether is wall street properly prepared for another crash situation .
said `` was our systemic performance good '' the big board 's mr. grasso , .
but `` will look the exchange at the performance of all specialists in all stocks .
'' said obviously 'll take a close look at any situation in which think was n't met the dealer-community obligations , we we he .
but complain privately that just as in the 1987 crash , stayed the `` upstairs '' firms -- big investment banks that support the market by trading big blocks of stock -- on the sidelines during friday 's blood-letting specialists .
said `` will take it another day or two '' to analyze who was buying and selling friday mr. phelan , .
concerning your sept. 21 page-one article on prince charles and the leeches : be it a few hundred years since england has been a kingdom .
be it now the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland , comprising wales , northern ireland , scotland , and ... oh yes , england , too .
reached agreements to sell its remaining seven aircraft to buyers that was n't disclosed ports of call inc. .
bring the number of planes have sold the travel company this year as part of a restructuring the agreements to a total of nine .
said will be used to repay its bank debt and other obligations resulting from the currently suspended air-charter operations a portion of the $ 32 million realized from the sales the company .
earlier announced would sell its aging fleet of boeing co. 707s it because of increasing maintenance costs the company .
said have made a $ 409 million cash bid for most of l.j. hooker corp. 's real-estate and shopping-center holdings it a consortium of private investors operating as ljh funding co. .
include the assumption of an estimated $ 300 million in secured liabilities on those properties , the $ 409 million bid according to those making the bid .
is led the group by jay shidler , chief executive officer of shidler investment corp. in honolulu , and a. boyd simpson , chief executive of the atlanta-based simpson organization inc .
specialize mr. shidler 's company in commercial real-estate investment and claim to have $ 1 billion in assets ; is mr. simpson a developer and a former senior executive of l.j. hooker .
said `` is the assets good , but require more money and management than can be provided in l.j. hooker 's current situation , they '' mr. simpson in an interview .
was to build and sell hooker 's philosophy .
want to build and hold we '' .
is operating l.j. hooker , based in atlanta , with protection from its creditors under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code .
is currently being managed its parent company , hooker corp. of sydney , australia , by a court-appointed provisional liquidator .
said that have not yet seen the bid he but that would review it he and bring it to the attention of the creditors committee sanford sigoloff , chief executive of l.j. hooker , yesterday in a statement .
is estimated the $ 409 million bid by mr. simpson as representing 75 % of the value of all hooker real-estate holdings in the u.s. .
not included is bonwit teller or b. altman & co. , l.j. hooker 's department-store chains in the bid .
cover the massive 1.8 million-square-foot forest fair mall in cincinnati , the 800,000 square-foot richland fashion mall in columbia , s.c. , and the 700,000 square-foot thornton town center mall in thornton , colo the offer .
opened the thornton mall sept. 19 with a bigg 's hypermarket as its anchor ; is expected to open nov. 15 the columbia mall .
is other hooker properties included a 20-story office tower in midtown atlanta , expected to be completed next february ; vacant land sites in florida and ohio ; l.j. hooker international , the commercial real-estate brokerage company that once did business as merrill lynch commercial real estate , plus other shopping centers .
was put together the consortium by hoare govett , the london-based investment banking company that is a subsidiary of security pacific corp .
said `` do n't anticipate any problems in raising the funding for the bid , we '' allan campbell , the head of mergers and acquisitions at hoare govett , in an interview .
is acting hoare govett as the consortium 's investment bankers .
according to people familiar with the consortium , the bid was code-named project klute , a reference to the film `` klute '' in which is saved a prostitute played by actress jane fonda from a psychotic businessman by a police officer named john klute .
was l.j. hooker a small home-building company based in atlanta in 1979 when was hired to push it into commercial development mr. simpson .
grew modestly the company until 1986 , when was acquired a majority position in hooker corp. by australian developer george herscu , currently hooker 's chairman .
proceeded to launch an ambitious , but ill-fated , $ 1 billion acquisition binge that included bonwit teller and b. altman & co. , as well as majority positions in merksamer jewelers , a sacramento chain ; sakowitz inc. , the houston-based retailer , and parisian inc. , the southeast department-store chain mr. herscu .
eventually had a falling out mr. simpson and mr. herscu over the direction of the company , and said resigned he in 1988 mr. simpson .
since then , have sold back to parisian 's management its interest in the parisian chain hooker corp. and is currently attempting to sell the b. altman & co. chain .
in addition , is seeking funds to buy out the hooker interest in his company robert sakowitz , chief executive of the sakowitz chain , .
is currently being offered the merksamer chain for sale by first boston corp .
reached in honolulu , said that believe can become profitable the various hooker malls with new management he mr. shidler .
said `` is these n't mature assets , but have the potential to be so , they '' mr. shidler .
`` managed properly , and with a long-term outlook , can become investment-grade quality properties these .
said totaled up 14.8 % from the preceding week 's total of 254,280 tons , 291,890 metric tons canadian steel-ingot production in the week ended oct. 7 , statistics canada , a federal agency , .
was up 6.2 % from 274,963 tons a year earlier the week 's total .
was the year-to-date total 12,006,883 tons , up 7.8 % from 11,141,711 tons a year earlier .
will be dated oct. 26 the bills and will mature oct. 25 , 1990 .
must be received bids by 1 p.m. edt thursday at the treasury or at federal reserve banks or branches .
as peppered their mutual funds small investors with phone calls over the weekend , said have a strong defense against any wave of withdrawals : cash they big fund managers .
unlike the weekend before black monday , was n't swamped the funds with heavy withdrawal requests .
and have built up cash levels many fund managers and say will be buying stock they this week .
at fidelity investments , the nation 's largest fund company , was up sharply , telephone volume but was it still at just half the level of the weekend preceding black monday in 1987 .
said was running stock-fund redemptions at less than one-third the level two years ago the boston firm .
as of yesterday afternoon , represented less than 15 % of the total cash position of about $ 2 billion of fidelity 's stock funds the redemptions .
said `` two years ago there was massive redemption levels over the weekend and a lot of fear around , '' c. bruce johnstone , who run fidelity investments ' $ 5 billion equity-income fund .
`` feel this more like a one-shot deal .
is n't panicking people '' .
may come the test today .
came too late for to act many investors friday 's stock market sell-off .
have held off some shareholders until today because would take place any fund exchanges made after friday 's close at today 's closing prices .
during the 1987 debacle did n't begin to snowball stock fund redemptions until after opened the market on black monday .
but say be they ready fund managers .
for instance , hold cash positions well above 20 % mario gabelli , in several of his funds .
said had raised their cash levels they to more than 20 % and 30 % , respectively , this year windsor fund 's john neff and mutual series ' michael price .
built up cash even peter lynch , manager of fidelity 's $ 12.7 billion magellan fund , the nation 's largest stock fund , to 7 % or $ 850 million .
is that after two years of monthly net redemptions , posted net inflows of money from investors the fund in august and september one reason .
said `` have let build up , the money i '' who added that has had trouble finding stocks likes he he mr. lynch , .
have raised cash levels , not all funds of course .
as a group , held 10.2 % of assets the latest figures available from the investment company institute stock funds in cash as of august , .
was that modestly higher than the 8.8 % and 9.2 % levels in august and september of 1987 .
also , would force some fund managers to dump stocks to raise cash persistent redemptions .
but is a strong level of investor withdrawals much more unlikely this time around , said fund managers .
is that already have sharply scaled back their purchases of stock funds investors since black monday a major reason .
have rebounded stock-fund sales in recent months , but is still running monthly net purchases at less than half 1987 levels .
said `` there be not nearly as much froth , '' john bogle , chairman of vanguard group inc. , a big valley forge , pa. , fund company .
argue that 's now the time to buy many fund managers .
added vincent bajakian , manager of the $ 1.8 billion wellington fund , to his positions in bristol-myers squibb , woolworth and dun & bradstreet friday .
and today 'll be looking to buy drug stocks like eli lilly , pfizer and american home products have been bolstered whose dividend yields by stock declines he .
for his part , snapped up southern co. shares fidelity 's mr. lynch , friday after got hammered the stock .
if drop further the market today , said 'll be buying blue chips such as bristol-myers and kellogg he he .
`` if croak stocks like that , they '' said he , present an opportunity that is `` the kind of thing dream you about '' it .
said was arriving phone calls at twice the normal weekend pace yesterday major mutual-fund groups .
but was seeking share prices and other information most investors .
was trading volume only modestly higher than normal .
still , is n't taking any chances fund groups .
hope to avoid the jammed phone lines and other snags that infuriated some fund investors in october 1987 they .
on saturday opened its 54 walk-in investor centers across the country fidelity .
normally is the centers closed through the weekend .
in addition , will open east coast centers at 7:30 edt this morning , instead of the normal 8:30 .
increased its staff of phone representatives to handle investor requests t. rowe price associates inc. .
noted that moved money some investors from stock funds to money-market funds the baltimore-based group .
said but seemed to be `` in an information mode rather than in a transaction mode , '' most investors steven norwitz , a vice president .
and among other groups , said was adding more phone representatives it today to help get through investors vanguard , .
in an unusual move , moved to calm investors with recordings on their toll-free phone lines several funds .
said `` view -lcb- friday 's -rcb- market decline we as offering a buying opportunity us as long-term investors , '' a recording at gabelli & co. funds over the weekend .
had a similar recording the janus group for investors .
expect a rough market this morning several fund managers before stabilize prices .
is some early selling likely to stem from investors and portfolio managers who want to lock in this year 's fat profits .
have averaged a staggering gain of 25 % stock funds through september , according to lipper analytical services inc .
predict will open down at least 50 points on technical factors and `` some panic selling '' the market elaine garzarelli , who run shearson lehman hutton inc. 's $ 335 million sector analysis portfolio , .
but expect prices to rebound soon she and is telling investors expect wo n't decline more than 10 % to 15 % the stock market from recent highs she .
said `` is this not a major crash , '' she .
nevertheless , said was swamped she with phone calls over the weekend from nervous shareholders ms. garzarelli .
`` is half of them really scared and want to sell , '' said she , `` but '' be trying to talk out of it them i .
added `` if all was they bullish , i 'd really be upset '' she , .
argue was the backdrop to friday 's slide markedly different from that of the october 1987 crash , fund managers .
say two years ago , unlike today , was the dollar weak , was rising interest rates and was the market very overvalued , they .
said `` from the investors ' standpoint , learned a painful lesson institutions and individuals ... by selling at the lows on black monday , '' stephen boesel , manager of the $ 580 million t. rowe price growth and income fund .
this time , `` do n't think 'll get a panic reaction we i .
said expect to report fiscal-first-quarter earnings of between 15 cents and 19 cents a share , somewhat below analysts ' estimates of 19 cents to 23 cents it newport corp. .
said fell orders below expectations in recent months the maker of scientific instruments and laser parts .
added that will about equal the yearearlier quarter 's figure , when reported net income of $ 1.7 million , or 21 cents a share , on $ 14.1 million in sales newport sales in the current quarter a spokesman .
reached air carriers ripples from the strike by 55,000 machinists union members against boeing co. friday as announced will postpone its new service out of houston it because of delays in receiving aircraft from the seattle jet maker america west airlines .
said that `` have caused some turmoil in our scheduling the work stoppage at boeing , now entering its 13th day , '' and that would now be put more than 500 passengers who were booked to fly out of houston on america west on other airlines peter otradovec , vice president for planning at the phoenix , ariz. , carrier , in an interview .
said told america west that would n't be delivered the 757 was supposed to get this thursday it until nov. 7 -- the day after had been planning to initiate service at houston with four daily flights , including three nonstops to phoenix and one nonstop to las vegas the airline boeing mr. otradovec .
now , is n't expected to begin those routes until jan .
is also supposed to send another 757 twin-engine aircraft as well as a 737 to america west by year 's end boeing .
too , is those , almost certain to arrive late .
at this point , have been affected no other america west flights -- including its new service at san antonio , texas ; newark , n.j. ; and palmdale , calif. -- by the delays in boeing deliveries .
nevertheless , underscore the domino effect can have that a huge manufacturer such as boeing on other parts of the economy the company 's reaction .
also is it sure to help put added pressure the machinists on the company .
said `` just do n't feel that can really stand a prolonged walkout , the company or would want i '' tom baker , president of machinists ' district 751 , in an interview yesterday .
`` do n't think would like very much it their customers i '' .
though , is america west , a smaller airline and therefore more affected than would be many of its competitors by the delayed delivery of a single plane .
said `` figure that probably have such a hard time counting all the planes in their fleets , might not miss one they at all , american and united i '' mr. otradovec .
indeed , did n't seem to indicate that was having much of an effect on other airline operations the strike a random check friday .
have a boeing 737-300 set for delivery at the end of this month southwest airlines and expect to have the plane on time .
said `` be it so close to completion , be told us there wo n't be a problem , boeing '' a southwest spokesman .
said have assured american airlines boeing will deliver a 757 it on time later this month a spokesman for amr corp. .
is preparing to take delivery of another 757 in early december and 20 more next year american and is n't anticipating any changes in that timetable .
in seattle , explained that the company has been in constant communication with all of its customers and that was it impossible to predict might be triggered what further disruptions by the strike a boeing spokesman .
meanwhile , have been trying to finish some 40 aircraft -- mostly 747 and 767 jumbo jets at the company 's everett , wash. , plant -- that were all but completed before the walkout supervisors and non-striking employees .
as of friday , had been delivered four and was supposed to be flown out over the weekend to air china a fifth plane , a 747-400 , .
have yet been set to get back to the bargaining table no date .
said `` want to make sure know what want they before come back , they they we '' doug hammond , the federal mediator who has been in contact with both sides since began the strike .
for one , have been anticipating a speedy resolution the investment community , .
though was battered along with the rest of the market boeing 's stock price friday , actually have risen it over the last two weeks on the strength of new orders .
said `` have taken two views : that will get settled the labor situation in the short term and that look very rosy things for boeing in the long term , the market '' howard rubel , an analyst at cyrus j. lawrence inc .
fell $ 4 boeing 's shares friday to close at $ 57.375 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange .
but said think the earliest could be struck a pact would be the end of this month , he hinting that may resume as early as this week negotiations the company and union mr. baker .
still , said he , be it possible that could last considerably longer the strike .
`` would n't expect an immediate resolution to anything i '' .
last week , sent a letter , boeing chairman frank shrontz striking workers saying that `` to my knowledge , represent the best overall three-year contract of any major u.s. industrial firm in recent history boeing 's offer '' .
but called the letter -- and the company 's offer of a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus bonuses -- `` very weak '' mr. baker .
added that miscalculated the union 's resolve and the workers ' disgust with being forced to work overtime many hours the company he .
in separate developments : -- have broken off talks between machinists representatives at lockheed corp. and the calabasas , calif. , aerospace company .
is continuing however to work through its expired contract , the union .
had planned a strike vote it for next sunday , but has been pushed back indefinitely that .
-- said agreed to extend its contract on a day-by-day basis , with a 10-day notification to cancel , while continue bargaining it it united auto workers local 1069 , which represent 3,000 workers at boeing 's helicopter unit in delaware county , pa. , .
expired the accord yesterday .
-- and on friday said received an order it from martinair holland for four model 767-300 wide-body jetliners valued at a total of about $ 326 million boeing .
will be delivered the planes , long range versions of the medium-haul twin-jet , with pratt & whitney pw4060 engines .
is pratt & whitney a unit of united technologies inc .
is based martinair holland in amsterdam .
said is still being worked out a delivery date for the planes `` for a variety of reasons , but not because of the strike '' a boeing spokeswoman .
contributed bridget o'brian to this article .
said is considering its utilities arm building new electric power plants , some valued at more than one billion canadian dollars ( us$ 851 million ) , in great britain and elsewhere atco ltd. .
said is reviewing cogeneration projects in eastern canada , and conventional electric power generating plants elsewhere , including britain , where the british government plans to allow limited competition in electrical generation from private-sector suppliers as part of its privatization program its 50.1%-owned canadian utilities ltd. unit c.s. richardson , atco 's senior vice president , finance , .
`` is the projects big .
'' said they can be c$ 1 billion plus , mr. richardson .
said `` but would n't go alone , we into them '' and canadian utilities ' equity stake would be small , he .
`` ideally , 'd like to be the operator -lcb- of the project -rcb- and a modest equity investor we .
said is our long suit our proven ability to operate power plants , '' he .
would n't offer specifics regarding atco 's proposed british project , mr. richardson but said would compete it with two huge british power generating companies that would be formed under the country 's plan to privatize its massive water and electric utilities for customers he .
plan to raise about # 20 billion ( $ 31.05 billion ) from the sale of most of its giant water and electric utilities , beginning next month britain 's government .
is alone expected to raise # 13 billion , making it the world 's largest public offering the planned electric utility sale , scheduled for next year , .
had 1988 revenue of c$ 1.16 billion , canadian utilities mainly from its natural gas and electric utility businesses in alberta , where serve about 800,000 customers the company .
`` there seems to be a move around the world to deregulate the generation of electricity , '' said mr. richardson , and hope to capitalize on it canadian utilities .
said `` is this a real thrust on our utility side , '' adding that is also mulling projects in underdeveloped countries , canadian utilities though he would be specific he , .
is canadian utilities n't alone in exploring power generation opportunities in britain , in anticipation of the privatization program .
said `` be certainly looking we at some power generating projects in england , '' bruce stram , vice president , corporate strategy and corporate planning , with enron corp. , houston , a big natural gas producer and pipeline operator .
said is considering enron building gas-fired power plants capable of producing about 500 megawatts of power in the u.k. at a cost of about $ 300 million to $ 400 million mr. stram .
said expect to report third earnings of $ 1.3 million to $ 1.7 million , or 14 cents to 18 cents a share it pse inc. .
in the year-ago quarter , had net income of $ 326,000 , or four cents a share , the designer and operator of cogeneration and waste heat recovery plants on revenue of about $ 41.4 million .
said is related the improvement to additional cogeneration facilities that have been put into operation the company .
is concorde trans-atlantic flights $ 2,400 to paris and $ 3,200 to london .
in a centennial journal article oct. 5 , was reversed the fares .
said had discovered offshore louisiana gas it diamond shamrock offshore partners .
is diamond shamrock the operator , with a 100 % interest in the well .
rose 12.5 cents diamond shamrock offshore 's stock friday to close at $ 8.25 in new york stock exchange composite trading .
said formed a $ 53.4 million limited partnership subsidiary to buy land in california suitable for residential development it kaufman & broad home corp. .
is the partnership , kaufman & broad land development venture limited partnership , a 50-50 joint venture with a trust created by institutional clients of heitman advisory corp. , a unit of heitman financial corp. , a real estate advisory , management and development company with offices in chicago and beverly hills , calif .
declined to identify the institutional investors kaufman & broad , a home building company , .
have n't yet received zoning and other approvals required for development , the land to be purchased by the joint venture and will be to obtain such approvals part of kaufman & broad 's job .
said run the risk that may not get the approvals for development , it the partnership but in return , can buy land it at wholesale rather than retail prices , which can result in sizable savings , bruce karatz , president and chief executive officer of kaufman & broad .
`` there is really very few companies that have adequate capital to buy properties in a raw state for cash .
'' said typically , option property , developers and once get the administrative approvals , they then buy it , they mr. karatz , adding that believe is the joint venture the first of its kind he .
`` usually operate we in that conservative manner '' .
said by setting up the joint venture , can take the more aggressive approach of buying raw land , kaufman & broad while avoiding the negative impacts to its own balance sheet , mr. karatz .
is putting up only 10 % of the capital , the company although is it responsible for providing management , planning and processing services to the joint venture .
said `` is this one of the best ways to assure a pipeline of land to fuel our growth at a minimum risk to our company , '' mr. karatz .
when took off the price of plastics in 1987 , went along quantum chemical corp. for the ride .
appeared to be nothing less than inspired , the timing of quantum 's chief executive officer , john hoyt stookey , because had just increased quantum 's reliance on plastics he .
outpaced much of the chemical industry the company as grew fivefold annual profit in two years .
said `` be going to last a whole lot longer than think anybody it '' mr. stookey of the boom , .
but now have nose-dived prices and is plummeting quantum 's profit .
is looking some securities analysts for no better than break-even results from the company for the third quarter , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , on sales of $ 724.4 million .
having lost nearly a quarter of its value since sept. 1 , closed down $ 1.125 , the stock , at $ 34.375 share , in new york stock exchange composite trading friday .
to a degree , represent the new times that have arrived for producers of the so-called commodity plastics that pervade modern life quantum .
having just passed through one of the most profitable periods in their history , now see these producers eroding their prices .
to be sure , is pricing cycles , nothing new for plastics producers .
and look steep the financial decline of some only in comparison with the heady period that is just behind them .
say `` was we all wonderful heroes last year , '' an executive at one of quantum 's competitors .
`` now be we at the bottom of the heap . ''
is magnified at quantum , which is based in new york , the trouble by the company 's heavy dependence on plastics .
once known as national distillers & chemical corp. , exited the wine and spirits business the company and plowed more of its resources into plastics after took the chief executive 's job mr. stookey in 1986 .
declined to be interviewed for this article , mr. stookey , 59 years old , but have consistently argued that over the long haul -- across both the peaks and the troughs of the plastics market -- will prosper quantum through its new direction he .
is mostly tied quantum 's lot to polyethylene resin , used to make garbage bags , milk jugs , housewares , toys and meat packaging , among other items .
in the u.s. polyethylene market , have claimed the largest share , about 20 % quantum .
but have much broader business interests its competitors -- including dow chemical co. , union carbide corp. and several oil giants -- and so are better cushioned against price swings .
when move a mere penny a pound , the price of polyethylene fluctuate quantum 's annual profit by about 85 cents a share , provided is changing no other variables .
in recent months even more than that of other commodity plastics , have taken a dive the price of polyethylene , .
have skidded benchmark grades , which still sold for as much as 50 cents a pound last spring , to between 35 cents and 40 cents .
meanwhile , have n't dropped nearly so fast the price of ethylene , the chemical building block of polyethylene , .
hurt badly , quantum that discrepancy because cover only about half of its ethylene needs its own plants .
by many accounts , came an early hint of a price rout in the making at the start of this year .
abruptly halted them china , which had been putting in huge orders for polyethylene , .
calculating that would soon be sloshing excess polyethylene around the world , then bet that prices had peaked other buyers and so began to draw down inventories rather than order new product .
say was surprised to learn how much had swelled inventories throughout the distribution chain as spiraled up prices producers kenneth mitchell , director of dow 's polyethylene business , .
say `` was even hoarding bags , people '' he .
now hope have hit bottom prices producers .
recently announced increases of a few cents a pound to take effect in the next several weeks they .
know however , whether will stick the new posted prices once start to haggle producers and customers no one , .
is one doubter george krug , a chemical-industry analyst at oppenheimer & co. and a bear on plastics stocks .
noting others ' estimates of when can be sustained price increases , remark `` say some october he , .
say 1992 i '' .
argue that will be undermined efforts to firm up prices by producers ' plans to expand production capacity he .
is a quick turnaround crucial to quantum because remain heavy its cash requirements .
is trying to carry out a three-year , $ 1.3 billion plant-expansion program started this year the company .
at the same time , will more than double its annual payments on long-term debt from a year ago to about $ 240 million , largely because of debt taken on to pay a $ 50-a-share special dividend earlier this year .
described the payout quantum at the time as a way for to share the bonanza it with its holders , because was n't reflecting the huge profit increases its stock price .
saw the payment some analysts as an effort also to dispel takeover speculation .
has become whether might eventually force the company to cut its quarterly dividend , raised only a year ago , 36 % to 75 cents a share a cash crunch a topic of intense speculation on wall street since deflected dividend questions mr. stookey in a sept. 29 meeting with analysts .
viewed his response -- that review regularly the dividend company directors -- some as nothing more than the standard line from executives .
but came away thinking had given something less than his usual straight-from-the-shoulder performance he others .
in any case , on the day of the meeting , slid $ 2.625 quantum 's shares to $ 36.625 in big board trading .
on top of everything else , confront a disaster at its plant in morris , ill quantum .
after idled the plant an explosion in june , progressed the company in september to within 12 hours of completing the drawn-out process of restarting it .
then occurred a second explosion .
died two workers and remain six in the hospital .
add the most painful dimension yet this human toll to the sudden change in quantum 's fortunes .
until this year , had been steadily lowering its accident rate the company and picking up trade-group safety awards .
could introduce another imponderable a prolonged production halt at the plant into quantum 's financial future .
when have just been running flat out to meet demand , a plant calculating lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance is straightforward .
but become trickier -- and subject to dickering between insured and insurer -- the numbers when is shifting demand .
recall `` say could have sold x percent of this product and y percent of that , you you '' theodore semegran , an analyst at shearson lehman hutton who went through this exercise during his former career as a chemical engineer .
hope will resume full operation the morris plant , where got limited production under way last week , by year 's end quantum .
usually account the plant for 20 % to 25 % of quantum 's polyethylene production and 50 % of its ethylene production .
look grim not everything for quantum .
should strengthen the company 's sway in the polyethylene business , where is often taken market share through sheer capacity the plant expansion .
by lifting ethylene production , will also lower the company 's raw material costs the expansion .
is also tightening its grip on its one large business outside chemicals , propane marketing quantum .
through a venture with its investment banker , first boston corp. , completed an acquisition of petrolane inc. quantum in august in a transaction valued at $ 1.18 billion .
is petrolane the second-largest propane distributor in the u.s. .
still , have right now a crisis to get past quantum .
speculate may yet attract a suitor the weakening stock some analysts .
is the name surfacing in rumors british petroleum co. , which is looking to expand its polyethylene business in the u.s. .
asked about a bid for quantum , say a bp spokesman , `` pretty much have a policy of not commenting on rumors , we and think fall that in that category i .
is disbanding its division responsible for buying network advertising time , rjr nabisco inc. just a month after moving 11 of the group 's 14 employees to new york from atlanta .
confirmed that is shutting down the rjr nabisco broadcast unit , it and dismissing its 14 employees , in a move to save money a spokesman for the new york-based food and tobacco giant , taken private earlier this year in a $ 25 billion leveraged buy-out by kohlberg kravis roberts & co. , .
said is discussing its network-buying plans rjr with its two main advertising firms , fcb/leber katz and mccann erickson the spokesman .
said `` found that could do just as good a job an ad agency at significantly lower cost , we with the size of our media purchases '' the spokesman , who declined to specify how much spend rjr on network television time .
said is spending down from roughly $ 200 million last year about $ 140 million rjr on network television time this year , an executive close to the company .
said the spokesman will be disbanded the broadcast unit dec. 1 , and wo n't affect rjr 's print , radio and spot-television buying practices the move .
had been based the broadcast group in new york until a year ago , when moved it rjr 's previous management to atlanta , the company 's headquarters before this summer .
said moved back to new york 11 employees of the group rjr in september because `` there was supposed to be a future '' one employee with the group .
said hired three more buyers the company for the unit within the past two weeks , wooing them from jobs with advertising agencies he .
said moved the 11 employees the company to new york last month because the group had then been in the midst of purchasing ad time for the networks ' upcoming season the rjr spokesman .
said `` could n't be completed the studies -lcb- on closing the unit -rcb- until now , '' he .
was the group 's president , peter chrisanthopoulos , n't in his office friday afternoon to comment .
is allocating a larger share of its steel market the u.s. , which is finalizing its steel-import quotas , to developing and newly industrialized countries which have relatively unsubsidized steel industries .
meanwhile , have negotiated a significant cut in japan 's steel quota , the u.s. and made only a minor increase to the steel allotment for the european community .
is expected to negotiate a somewhat bigger share of the u.s. market than had it under the previous five-year steel quotas , which expired sept. 30 brazil , similar to mexico and south korea , .
is brazil and venezuela the only two countries that have n't completed steel talks with the u.s. for the year ending oct. 1 , 1990 .
in recent years , have supplied about 80 % of the 100 million tons of steel used annually by the nation u.s. steelmakers .
of the remaining 20 % needed , allocate about 15 % the steel-quota negotiations to foreign suppliers , with supplied the difference mainly by canada -- which is n't included in the quota program .
also have supplied steel other countries that do n't have formal steel quotas with the u.s. , such as taiwan , sweden and argentina , .
earlier this year said would extend steel quotas , known as voluntary restraint agreements , it until march 31 , 1992 the bush administration .
also said would use that two-and-a-half year period it to work toward an international consensus on freeing up the international steel trade , which has been notoriously managed , subsidized and protected by governments it .
termed its plan , a `` trade liberalization program , '' the u.s. despite the fact that is it merely an extension .
virtually doubled its quota mexico , which was one of the first countries to conclude its steel talks with the u.s. , to 0.95 % of the u.s. steel market from 0.48 % under the previous quotas .
is set to get a small increase to about 1.95 % south korea , which had 1.9 % under the previous quotas , .
rise that increase to slightly more than 2 % of the u.s. market if is included a joint korean-u.s. steel project .
meanwhile , is expected to increase its allowance from the 1.43 % share have had it in recent years brazil .
have n't been filling their quotas the ec and japan -- the u.s. 's largest steel suppliers -- to the full extent .
have been supplying about 5 % of the u.s. market compared with recent quotas of about 6.7 % the ec steel industry , which has been coping with strong european demand , .
have been shipping steel to total about 4.5 % of the u.s. market compared with a quota of 5.9 % japan .
in the recent talks , had increased about 300,000 tons , its quota to 7 % of the u.s. market from 6.7 % in 1988 the ec .
however , have agreed to cut its quota to about 5 % from 5.9 % previously japan , .
provide about 80 % of the steel imported to the u.s. under the quota program japan , the ec , brazil , mexico and south korea .
is supplied the balance by a host of smaller exporters , such as australia and venezuela .
had about an extra 2 % of the domestic steel market to give to foreign suppliers in its quota talks the u.s. .
was essentially made up that of a 1 % increase in the overall quota program and 1 % from cutting japan 's allowance .
will repeat these quota negotiations negotiators from the white house trade office next year when will have another 1 % of the u.s. steel market to allocate they .
is built to give leverage with foreign steel suppliers to try to get them to withdraw subsidies and protectionism from their own steel industries its negotiators these optional 1%-a-year increases to the steel quota program into the bush administration 's steel-quota program .
expect fiscal second-quarter earnings to trail 1988 results , elcotel inc. but anticipate that will lead several new products to a `` much stronger '' performance in its second half .
had net income of $ 272,000 , or five cents a share , elcotel , a telecommunications company , in its year-earlier second quarter , ended sept. 30 .
totaled $ 5 million revenue .
said that earnings in the most recent quarter will be about two cents a share on revenue of just under $ 4 million george pierce , chairman and chief executive officer , in an interview .
said mr. pierce , reflect a 12-month decline in industry sales of privately owned pay telephones , elcotel 's primary business the lower results , .
although expect that line of business to strengthen in the next year , mr. pierce said will also benefit elcotel from moving into other areas he .
foremost among those is the company 's entrance into the public facsimile business , said mr. pierce .
within the next year , expect to place 10,000 fax machines , made by minolta in japan , in hotels , municipal buildings , drugstores and other public settings around the country elcotel .
will provide a credit-card reader for to collect billing data the machines , store and forward elcotel .
said should realize a minimum of $ 10 of recurring net earnings elcotel for each machine each month mr. pierce .
have also developed an automatic call processor that will make further use of the company 's system for automating credit-card calls and collect calls and handling elcotel .
will provide that system automatic call processors for virtually any telephone , said mr. pierce , not just phones produced by elcotel .
will also be producing a new line of convenience telephones , which do n't accept coins , for use in hotel lobbies , office lobbies , hospitality lounges and similar settings the company .
estimated that would produce about $ 5 of recurring net earnings the processors and convenience phones for each machine each month mr. pierce .
said rose 0.7 % britain 's retail price index in september from august and was up 7.6 % for the year , the central statistical office .
said adopted a shareholders ' rights plan in which will be distributed rights to purchase shares of common stock as a dividend to shareholders of record as of oct. 23 it quest medical inc. .
said was n't adopted the plan in response to any known offers for quest , a maker and marketer of hospital products the company .
allow shareholders to purchase quest stock at a discount if acquire more than 15 % of the company 's common stock any person or group or announce a tender offer the rights .
may soon be replaced measuring cups by tablespoons in the laundry room .
plan to begin testing a superconcentrated detergent that will require only a few spoonfuls per washload next month procter & gamble co. .
stem the move from lessons learned in japan where have had phenomenal success local competitors with concentrated soapsuds .
also mark p&g 's growing concern that may bring their superconcentrates its japanese rivals , such as kao corp. , to the u.s. it .
got clobbered two years ago the cincinnati consumer-products giant in japan when introduced a powerful detergent , called attack , which quickly won a 30 % stake in the japanese markets kao .
say `` do n't want to get caught again , they '' one industry watcher .
say p&g 's new powdered detergent -- to be called cheer with color guard -- will be on shelves in that market by early november retailers in phoenix , ariz. , .
confirmed that started shipments to phoenix late last month a p&g spokeswoman .
said will study results from this market the company before expanding to others she .
is superconcentrates n't entirely new for p&g .
introduced a superconcentrated lemon cheer the company in japan after watching the success of attack .
when hit the shelves attack in 1987 , fell p&g 's share of the japanese market to about 8 % from more than 20 % .
with the help of lemon cheer , is now estimated to be 12 % p&g 's share .
while have embraced the compact packaging and convenience of concentrated products , the japanese the true test for p&g will be in the $ 4 billion u.s. detergent market , where is growth slow and have gained prominence over powders liquids .
may have chosen to market the product under the cheer name the company since be already expanded its best-selling tide it into 16 different varieties , including this year 's big hit , tide with bleach .
with superconcentrates , however , is it n't always easy to persuade consumers that is less more ; tend to dump too much detergent into the washing machine , believing that take a cup of powder it to really clean the laundry many people .
in the early 1980s , tried to launch here a concentrated detergent under the ariel brand name market that it in europe p&g .
but bombed the product , which was n't as concentrated as the new cheer , in a market test in denver and was dropped .
also have tried repeatedly to hook consumers on detergent and fabric softener combinations in pouches , p&g and others but have n't sold well , they despite the convenience .
but contend p&g is the new cheer a unique formula that also offer an ingredient that prevent colors from fading .
and is expected to embrace the product , retailers in part because will take up less shelf space it .
say `` when was shelf space cheap , was bigger better , '' hugh zurkuhlen , an analyst at salomon bros .
but with vying so many brands for space , be that no longer the case .
if sell well , the new cheer is the trend toward smaller packaging likely to accelerate as follow competitors with their own superconcentrates .
say `` then will probably push out altogether , the -lcb- less-established -rcb- brands retailers '' he .
is competition bound to get tougher if introduce a product like attack kao in the u.s. .
to be sure , would n't have an easy time taking away from the mighty p&g , which have about 23 % of the market u.s. market share kao .
previously have said is they interested in selling detergents in the u.s. , kao officials but so far have focused the company on acquisitions , such as last year 's purchase of andrew jergens co. , a cincinnati hand-lotion maker .
also have a product-testing facility it in california .
believe go p&g 's interest in a superconcentrated detergent beyond the concern for the japanese some .
say `` is this something would do p&g with or without kao , '' mr. zurkuhlen .
with worsening economic tension between the u.s. and japan , had feared last week 's visit from u.s. trade representative carla hills many japanese .
expected a new barrage of demands that do quickly something japan to reduce its trade surplus with the u.s. they .
instead , got a discussion of the need for to work together the u.s. and japan and of the importance of the long-term view they .
had a completely different tone from last month 's visit by commerce secretary robert a. mosbacher mrs. hills ' first trip to japan as america 's chief trade negotiator .
called mr. mosbacher for concrete results by next spring in negotiations over fundamental japanese business practices that supposedly inhibit free trade .
said such results should be `` measurable in dollars and cents '' in reducing the u.s. trade deficit with japan he .
but speaking at a breakfast meeting of the american chamber of commerce in japan on saturday , stressed that `` is not to get definitive action by spring or summer , the objective is rather to have a blueprint for action it '' mrs. hills , .
added that expected `` perhaps to have a down payment ... some small step to convince the american people and the japanese people that be moving we in earnest '' she she .
wo n't become clear how translate such remarks into policy for months .
offered several theories for the difference in approach betwen mr. mosbacher and mrs. hills american and japanese officials .
said may feel is getting out of hand the rhetoric on both sides the bush administration others .
and said reflected the growing debate in washington over pursuing free trade with japan versus some kind of managed trade it some .
replied asked to compare her visit to mr. mosbacher 's , mrs. hills : `` did n't hear every word spoke he , i but as a general proposition , think have a very consistent trade strategy we in the bush administration i '' .
yet said often was her tone surprisingly `` conciliatory '' more than one american official who sat in with her during three days of talks with japanese officials .
said `` think my line has been very consistent , i '' mrs. hills at a news conference saturday afternoon .
`` be painted sometimes i as ferocious , because perhaps have a ferocious list of statutes to implement i .
do n't feel very ferocious i .
do n't feel either hard or soft i .
feel committed to the program of opening markets and expanding trade i '' .
when met the local press she for the first time on friday , firmly reiterated the need for progress in removing barriers to trade in forest products , satellites and supercomputers , three areas targeted under the super 301 provision of the 1988 trade bill mrs. hills .
highlighted exclusionary business practices have identified that the u.s. government she .
but was to promote the importance of world-wide free trade and open competition her main thrust .
said was the trade imbalance mainly due to macroeconomic factors and should n't be tackled by setting quantitative targets she .
at her news conference for japanese reporters , summed up the japanese sense of relief one economics journalist .
said `` was that you would be a scary old lady , my impression '' drawing a few nervous chuckles from his colleagues he , .
mrs. hills ' remarks did raise questions , at least among some u.s. officials , about what exactly is her stance on u.s. access to the japanese semiconductor market .
have interpreted a 1986 agreement many americans as assuring a 20 % share by 1991 , u.s. companies but have denied making any such promise the japanese .
at one of her news conferences , said `` believe can do much better than 20 % we i '' mrs. hills , .
but stressed `` i am against managed trade she , .
will not enter i into an agreement that stipulate to a percentage of the market .
said expect to report a net loss for the fourth quarter that ended june 30 it and is seeking new financing traditional industries inc. .
said is considering a number of financing alternatives , including seeking increases in its credit lines it the seller of photographic products and services .
declined to estimate the amount of the loss traditional and would n't say if expect to show a profit for the year it .
in the year ended june 30 , 1988 , reported net income of $ 4.9 million , or $ 1.21 a share traditional .
did n't break out its fourth-quarter results the company .
in the latest nine months was net income $ 4.7 million , or $ 1.31 a share , on revenue of $ 44.3 million .
separately , said would file a delayed fiscal-year report it with the securities and exchange commission `` within approximately 45 days '' the company .
said resulted the delay from difficulties in resolving its accounting of a settlement with the federal trade commission it .
under an agreement filed in federal court in august to settle ftc objections to some traditional sales practices , said would establish a $ 250,000 trust fund to provide refunds to certain customers it traditional .
said was sued it by a buyer of its computerized newspaper-publishing system , alleging that failed to correct deficiencies in the system the company information international inc. .
said seek restitution of the system 's about $ 3 million purchase price and cancellation of a software license provided by the morris units to information international the lawsuit by two units of morris communications corp. for alleged failure to pay royalties a spokesman for information international .
said believe that filed in federal court in georgia , is the complaints , without merit it information international .
is based closely held morris communications in augusta , ga .
is the units that filed the suit southeastern newspapers corp. and florida publishing co .
completed the sale of its a. sulka & co. subsidiary , a men 's luxury haberdashery , to luxco investments syms corp. .
was n't disclosed terms .
said `` as grow syms 's core business of off-price retailing , become a difficult distraction , a small subsidiary that is operationally unrelated '' marcy syms , president of the parent , in a statement .
said operate a total of seven stores sulka in the u.s. and overseas a spokeswoman .
operate 25 off-price apparel stores syms in the u.s. .
could persist the oil industry 's middling profits through the rest of the year .
in the next few days is expected to report much less robust earnings than they did for the third quarter a year ago , largely reflecting deteriorating chemical prices and gasoline profitability major oil companies .
may improve the gasoline picture this quarter , but is chemicals likely to remain weak , reducing chances that could equal their year-earlier performance profits say industry executives and analysts , .
said `` is seeing a softening somewhat in volume and certainly in price in petrochemicals , the industry '' glenn cox , president of phillips petroleum co. , in an interview .
added `` will obviously impact third and fourth quarter earnings for the industry in general , that change '' he .
did n't forecast phillips 's results he .
but say phillips will be among the companies hard-hit by weak chemical prices and will probably post a drop in third-quarter earnings securities analysts .
so , too , predict many analysts , will exxon corp. , chevron corp. and amoco corp .
have plunged 13 % it since july to around 26 cents a pound .
a year ago sold peaking at about 34 cents last december ethylene for 33 cents , .
is a big reason for the chemical price retreat overexpansion .
beginning in mid-1987 , began accelerating prices as spurred demand a growing u.s. economy and the weak dollar .
added furiously capacity companies .
now , is greatly increased supplies on the market , while is the dollar stronger , and is domestic economic growth slower .
was third-quarter profits from gasoline weaker .
said `` was refining margins so good in the third quarter of last year and generally not very good this year , '' william randol , a securities analyst at first boston corp .
ran flat out to prepare for a robust holiday driving season in july and august that did n't materialize oil company refineries .
pushed down gasoline prices the excess supply in that period .
in addition , was up some from a year earlier , further pressuring profitability crude oil prices .
say picked up margins in september , refiners and believe will rebound gasoline profits this quarter , though still not to the level of 1988 's fourth quarter many industry officials .
during the 1988 second half , posted record gasoline and chemical profits many companies .
may turn out to be the most surprising element of companies ' earnings this year crude oil production .
-- averaging roughly $ 2 a barrel higher in the third quarter than a year earlier -- have stayed prices well above most companies ' expectations .
demand has been much stronger than anticipated , and typically accelerate it in the fourth quarter .
said `` could see higher oil prices we this year , '' bryan jacoboski , an analyst at painewebber inc .
will translate that into sharply higher production profits , particularly compared with last year when steadily fell oil prices to below $ 13 a barrel in the fourth quarter .
in the third quarter , averaged about 5 % less than they were in 1988 they .
remain weather the main reason .
was last summer notable for a heat wave and drought that caused utilities to burn more natural gas to feed increased electrical demand from air conditioning use .
on the other hand , had milder weather than usual this summer , .
said `` we 've been very disappointed in the performance of natural gas prices , '' mr. cox , phillips 's president .
`` is not going to assist fourth quarter performance as had expected many the lagging gas price '' .
going into the fourth quarter , is natural gas prices anywhere from 8 % to 17 % lower than a year earlier .
for instance , is selling down 13 % from $ 1.69 a thousand cubic feet a year ago natural gas currently produced along the gulf coast on the spot market for around $ 1.47 a thousand cubic feet , .
trying to blunt growing demands from western europe for a relaxation of controls on exports to the soviet bloc , is questioning whether supplied militarily valuable technology italy 's ing . c. olivetti & co. to the soviets the bush administration , .
are expected to argue for more liberal export rules at a meeting to be held in paris oct. 25 and 26 most of the western european members of coordinating committee on multilateral export controls , the unofficial forum through which align their export-control policies , the u.s. and its allies .
plan to press specifically for a relaxation of rules governing exports of machine tools , computers and other high-technology products they .
but say want to see evidence that is complying fully all cocom members with existing export-control procedures before will support further liberalization it it the bush administration .
to make its point , is challenging the italian government it to explain reports that may have supplied the soviet union olivetti with sophisticated computer-driven devices that could be used to build parts for combat aircraft .
cited a u.s. intelligence report the london sunday times , which first reported the u.s. concerns , as the source of the allegations that exported $ 25 million in `` embargoed , state-of-the-art , flexible manufacturing systems '' olivetti to the soviet aviation industry .
reportedly began shipping these tools olivetti in 1984 .
acknowledged that is discussing the allegations the u.s. with the italian government and cocom , a state department spokesman but declined to confirm any details .
promised a quick investigation into whether broke cocom rules olivetti italian president francesco cossiga .
called his attention president bush to the matter during the italian leader 's visit here last week .
have denied that violated cocom rules , it asserting that was properly licensed the reported shipments by the italian authorities olivetti .
although is the legality of these sales still an open question , could n't be better timed to support the position of export-control hawks in the pentagon and the intelligence community the disclosure .
said `` seem that break a story like this just before every important cocom meeting , it to me '' a washington lobbyist for a number of u.s. computer companies .
have sent conflicting signals about its export-control policies , the bush administration reflecting unhealed divisions among several competing agencies .
last summer , moved the administration mr. bush in the direction of gradual liberalization when told a north atlantic treaty organization meeting that would allow some exceptions to the cocom embargo of strategic goods he he .
but more recently , openly feuded the pentagon and the commerce department over the extent to which should liberalize exports of personal computers to the bloc cocom .
however , generally agree that the west should be cautious about any further liberalization these agencies .
said `` there be no evidence that have diminished the soviet program ( illegally ) to acquire western technology , '' a state department spokesman .
announced will issue warrants on shares of hong kong telecommunications ltd it salomon brothers international ltd. , a british subsidiary of salomon inc. , .
closely follow a similar offer by salomon of warrants for shares of hongkong & shanghai banking corp the move .
will be priced the 50 million warrants at hk$ 1.25 each and are expected to carry a premium to the share price of about 26 % .
in trading on the stock exchange of hong kong , closed the shares wednesday at hk$ 4.80 each .
at this price , would have to rise above hk$ 6.05 for to profitably convert their warrants subscribers to salomon 's issue the shares .
while in the past have issued warrants on their own shares , hong kong companies is salomon 's warrants the first here to be issued by a third party .
`` will cover the warrants salomon '' by buying sufficient shares , or options to purchase shares , to cover its entire position .
said is warrants for hong kong stocks attractive because give an opportunity to buy shares without taking too great a risk they foreign investors , wary of volatility in the colony 's stock market , bankers .
the hong kong telecommunications warrants should be attractive to buyers in europe , added the bankers , because is the group one of a handful of blue-chip stocks on the hong kong market that have international appeal .
filed suit financial corp. of santa barbara against former stock speculator ivan f. boesky and drexel burnham lambert inc. , charging defrauded the thrift they by concealing their relationship when persuading it to buy $ 284 million in high-yield , high-risk junk bonds .
in a suit filed in federal court thursday , alleged that declined a `` disproportionate number '' of the bonds purchased it in 1984 in value the s&l .
purchased the bonds , financial corp. alleged the suit , after negotiated an agreement for to purchase a 51 % stake in the thrift vagabond hotels for about $ 34 million mr. boesky and drexel .
was controlled vagabond hotels by mr. boesky , who currently is serving a prison term for securities violations .
said had n't seen the suit they and thus could n't comment officials at drexel .
in addition to $ 33 million compensatory damages , seek $ 100 million in punitive damages the suit .
also named is ivan f. boesky corp. and northview corp. , the successor company to vagabonds hotels in the suit .
could n't be located northview officials .
said agreed to buy the bonds it after visited it a representative of ivan f. boesky corp. in november 1983 and said could improve its financial condition financial corp. by purchasing the bonds financial corp. .
shortly before the visit , had met mr. boesky and drexel representives with financial corp. officials and had signed a letter of intent to acquire the 51 % stake in the company .
however , was canceled the agreement in june 1984 .
said purchased the bonds financial corp. in at least 70 different transactions in 1984 and since then has realized $ 11 million in losses on them , the company .
said reached an agreement in principle calling for to combine its north american cement holdings hofi north america inc. in a transaction that will leave ideal 's minority shareholders with 12.8 % of the combined company with ideal its directors ideal basic industries inc. .
previously proposed combining its 100 % stake in st. lawrence cement inc. and its 60 % stake in dundee cement co. with its 67 % stake in ideal hofi , the north american holding company of swiss concern holderbank financiere glaris ltd. , .
but would have given about 10 % of the combined company hofi 's first offer ideal 's other shareholders .
rejected that offer , ideal 's directors although said endorsed the merger proposal they they .
under the agreement , will own 87.2 % of the combined company hofi .
will represent about 39.2 % of the combined company ideal 's current operations .
is the transaction subject to a definitive agreement and approval by ideal shareholders .
said expect to complete the transaction early next year it ideal .
while have slumped corn and soybean prices well below their drought-induced peaks of 1988 , remain stubbornly high wheat prices .
say and be they likely to stay that way for months to come , analysts .
say for one thing , with even planting more winter wheat many farmers this year than last , is tight wheat supplies likely to support prices well into 1990 , the analysts .
and if do n't fall soon rain across many of the great plains ' wheat-growing areas , could be reduced further squeezing supplies yields in the crop now being planted , .
also supporting is prices expectations that will place substantial buying orders the soviet union over the next few months .
by next may 31 , is projected to drop to 443 million bushels stocks of u.s. wheat to be carried over into the next season -- before is harvested the winter wheat now being planted -- .
was stocks 698 million bushels on may 31 of this year .
in response to dwindling domestic supplies , last month said would slightly increase the number of acres can plant farmers in wheat for next year and still qualify for federal support payments the u.s. government agriculture secretary clayton yeutter .
estimate that will boost production next year the new plan by about 66 million bushels the government .
now estimate production for next year it at just under 2.6 billion bushels , compared with this year 's estimated 2.04 billion and a drought-stunted 1.81 billion in 1988 .
but wo n't be felt the full effect on prices of the winter wheat now being planted until the second half of next year .
say until then , is limited stocks likely to keep prices near the $ 4-a-bushel level , analysts .
on the chicago board of trade friday , settled wheat for december delivery at $ 4.0675 a bushel , unchanged .
said in theory at least , could leave the wheat futures market susceptible to a supply-demand squeeze , tight supplies next spring daniel basse , a futures analyst with agresource co. in chicago .
can wreak havoc , such a situation as was shown by the emergency that developed in soybean futures trading this summer on the chicago board of trade .
in july , ordered ferruzzi finanziaria s.p . a. to liquidate futures positions equal to about 23 million bushels of soybeans the cbot .
said feared that some members would n't be able to find enough soybeans to deliver and would have to default on their contractual obligation to the italian conglomerate , which had refused requests to reduce its holdings it the exchange .
have denied was trying to manipulate the soybean futures market it ferruzzi .
said is threatening to reduce the yield from this season 's winter wheat crop , unseasonably hot , dry weather across large portions of the great plains and in wheat-growing areas in washington and oregon conrad leslie , a futures analyst and head of leslie analytical in chicago .
for example , in the oklahoma panhandle , is 40 % or more of the topsoil short of moisture .
said climb that figure to about 47 % in wheat-growing portions of kansas , he .
have n't given any clear indication of its wheat purchase plans , the soviet union but expect moscow to place sizable orders for u.s. wheat in the next few months , further supporting prices many analysts .
predicted `` will increasingly pivot wheat prices off of soviet demand '' in coming weeks , richard feltes , vice president , research , for refco inc. in chicago .
will be watching to see how long and how far will go the price decline that began friday orange juice traders .
thursday , after the close of trading , late received what would normally have been a bullish u.s. department of agriculture estimate of the 1989-90 florida orange crop the market .
was it near the low range of estimates , at 130 million 90-pound boxes , compared with 146.6 million boxes last season .
as expected , however , waited brazil for to come out the crop estimate and then cut the export price of its juice concentrate to about $ 1.34 a pound from around $ 1.55 .
erased might have had whatever supportive effect the u.s. report friday 's consequent selling of futures contracts and sent down as much as 6.55 cents a pound the november orange juice contract at one time .
settled it with a loss of 4.95 cents at $ 1.3210 a pound .
after a delay caused by drought at the start of its crop season , is beginning to arrive in the u.s. in large quantities brazilian juice , .
want to stimulate demand for its product , which is going to be in plentiful supply brazil .
said one analyst , appeared to be aimed even more at europe , where have fallen consumption of brazilian juice the price cut , .
said be it a dollar-priced product , and have made it more expensive in europe , the strong dollar the analyst .
have dropped significantly new york futures prices from more than $ 2 a pound at midyear .
said barring a cold snap or other crop problems in the growing areas , is downward pressure on prices likely to continue into january , when reach their peak , harvesting and processing of oranges in florida the analyst .
although look some analysts for profit-taking in the wake of friday 's leap in crude oil prices , is generally expected to continue this week last week 's rally .
said `` would continue to look for a stable crude market , at least in futures trading , i '' william hinton , an energy futures broker with stotler & co .
capped a week of steadily rising crude oil prices in both futures and spot markets friday .
on the new york mercantile exchange , finished up 42 cents on the day west texas intermediate crude for november delivery at $ 20.89 a barrel , .
on european markets , meanwhile , was up 35 to 75 cents a barrel spot prices of north sea crudes .
said `` still want to go higher , this market '' nauman barakat , a first vice president at shearson lehman hutton inc .
predicted that will reach $ 21.50 a barrel or more the november contract on the new york mercantile exchange he .
generally cite a lack of bearish developments as well as rumors of a possible tightening of supplies of some fuels and crudes analysts .
there also is recurring reports that is having difficulties the soviet union with its oil exports and that have about reached its production limit nigeria and ca n't produce as much as could sell it .
foresee a tightening of near-term supplies , particularly of high-quality crudes such as those produced in the north sea and in nigeria many traders .
said if emerge a hostile predator for saatchi & saatchi co. , will lead a management buy-out attempt , co-founders charles and maurice saatchi an official close to the company .
last week , said had been approached it by one or more third parties interested in a possible restructuring saatchi 's largest shareholder , southeastern asset management , .
and said had offered to lead a management buy-out of the company , he but was rebuffed by charles saatchi carl spielvogel , chief executive officer of saatchi 's big backer spielvogel bates advertising unit , .
said would n't launch a hostile bid he mr. spielvogel .
said that `` if came up a bidder with a ludicrously high offer , a crazy offer which knew could n't beat it , saatchi would have no choice but to recommend it to shareholders it the executive close to saatchi & saatchi .
but -lcb- otherwise -rcb- would undoubtedly come back it '' with an offer by management .
said would be led any buy-out by the current board , is whose chairman maurice saatchi and is believed to be charles saatchi whose strategic guiding force the executive .
is mr. spielvogel n't part of the board , nor are any of the other heads of saatchi 's big u.s.-based ad agencies .
did n't name any price , the executive but have said would fetch upward of $ 1.3 billion saatchi securities analysts .
denied speculation that was bringing in the new chief executive officer saatchi only to clean up financially the company so that could lead a buy-back the brothers the executive .
abounded that speculation friday as analyzed the appointment of the new chief executive , robert louis-dreyfus , who join saatchi and become a member of its board on jan. 1 industry executives .
have a reputation as a savvy financial manager , mr. louis-dreyfus , formerly chief executive of the pharmaceutical research firm ims international inc. , and will be charged with largely repairing saatchi 's poor financial state .
asked about the speculation that have been hired to pave the way for a buy-out by the brothers , mr. louis-dreyfus replied `` is that n't the reason have been brought in dreyfus the executive , .
was brought in to turn around the company he '' .
separately , said believe will have little affect on them the company 's management shakeup they several saatchi agency clients .
said `` have n't had any impact on us , it nor do expect it to , we '' a spokeswoman for miller brewing co. , a major client of backer spielvogel .
said `` have no problem with the announcement , we because do n't know be going what change to bring about it we john lampe , director of advertising at painewebber inc. , a saatchi & saatchi advertising client , : .
is n't going to change agencies because of a change in london we '' .
also said saw no effect they executives at backer spielvogel client avis inc. , as well as at saatchi client philips lighting co. , .
declined comment executives at prudential-bache securities inc. , a backer spielvogel client that is reviewing its account , .
had said that was prepared to finance either a management buy-out and restructuring , or a buy-out of backer spielvogel alone , led by him prudential-bache mr. spielvogel .
awarded its $ 12 million to $ 15 million account california 's glendale federal bank to the los angeles office of omnicom group 's bbdo agency .
was previously handled the account by davis , ball & colombatto advertising inc. , a los angeles agency .
have ended its relationship with the boston office of hill , holliday , connors , cosmopulos royal crown cola co. .
had billed about $ 6 million the account in 1988 , according to leading national advertisers .
as expected , pleaded not guilty young & rubicam inc. along with two senior executives and a former employee , in federal court in new haven , conn. , to conspiracy and racketeering charges .
have charged that bribed jamaican officials they to win the jamaica tourist board ad account in 1981 the government .
said `` is just beginning extradition proceedings '' for the other two defendants in the case , eric anthony abrahams , former jamaican tourism minister , and jamaican businessman arnold foote jr a spokesman for the u.s. attorney 's office .
agreed to establish a joint venture advertising agency in south korea the samsung group and bozell inc. .
will be based bozell cheil corp. , as will be called the new agency , in seoul and is owned 70 % by samsung and owned 30 % by bozell .
already own korea first advertising co. , that country 's largest agency samsung .
join backer spielvogel bates and ogilvy group bozell as u.s. agencies with interests in korean agencies .
citing a payment from a supplier and strong sales of certain data-storage products , said jumped earnings and revenue in its second quarter ended sept. 24 maxtor corp. .
said rose net income to $ 4.8 million , or 23 cents a share , from year-earlier net of $ 1.1 million , or five cents a share the maker of computer-data-storage products .
soared revenue to $ 117 million from $ 81.5 million .
said was boosted its results by $ 2 million in payments received from a supplier , for a certain line of products is n't going that to sell anymore maxtor maxtor .
said may have a positive effect on future earnings and revenue effects from discontinuing the line maxtor .
would n't elaborate a spokeswoman , but said the discontinued product has never been a major source of revenue or profit the company .
operationally , benefited maxtor from robust sales of products that store data for high-end personal computers and computer workstations .
in the fiscal first half , was net $ 7 million , or 34 cents a share , up from the year-earlier $ 3.1 million , or 15 cents a share .
rose revenue to $ 225.5 million from $ 161.8 million .
was elected a director of this provider of advanced technology systems and services , increasing the board to eight members robert g. walden , 62 years old , .
retired he as senior vice president , finance and administration , and chief financial officer of the company oct. 1 .
said that filed part of its 10-k report it with the securities and exchange commission , but that do n't include its audited financial statements and related information the filing southmark corp. .
operating under bankruptcy-law proceedings , said told the sec could n't provide financial statements it by the end of its first extension `` without unreasonable burden or expense '' it the real estate and thrift concern , .
asked the company for a 15-day extension sept. 30 , when was the financial reports due .
said plan to amend as soon as is completed its audit its 10k to provide financial results it southmark .
was named chairman of this processor of prescription claims , succeeding thomas w. field jr. , 55 , who resigned last month alan seelenfreund , 52 years old , .
is mr. seelenfreund executive vice president and chief financial officer of mckesson and will continue in those roles .
also named rex r. malson , 57 , executive vice president at mckesson , pcs as a director , filling the seat vacated by mr. field .
is messrs. malson and seelenfreund directors of mckesson , which have an 86 % stake in pcs .
said ruled that was a challenge by medchem to the validity of a u.s. patent held by pharmacia inc. `` without merit '' a u.s. district court in boston medchem products inc. .
had charged that infringe medchem 's amvisc product line on the pharmacia patent pharmacia , based in upsala , sweden , in a lawsuit against medchem .
is related the patent to hyaluronic acid , a rooster-comb extract used in eye surgery .
in its lawsuit , is seeking unspecified damages and a preliminary injunction to block medchem from selling the amvisc products pharmacia .
said contribute about a third of medchem 's sales and 10 % to 20 % of its earnings the products a medchem spokesman .
in the year ended aug. 31 , 1988 , earned $ 2.9 million , or 72 cents a share , medchem on sales of $ 17.4 million .
said was issued the court 's ruling as part of a `` first-phase trial '' in the patent-infringement proceedings and concern only one of its defenses in the case medchem .
said is considering `` all of its options '' it in light of the decision , including a possible appeal it .
added that plan `` to assert its other defenses against pharmacia 's lawsuit , including the claim that have n't infringed it on pharmacia 's patent '' it the medical-products company .
said that scheduled a conference the court for next monday -- to set a date for proceedings on pharmacia 's motion for a preliminary injunction medchem .
is reporting mixed third-quarter results , aided by favorable newsprint prices and hampered by flat or declining advertising linage , especially in the northeast newspaper publishers .
adding to unsteadiness in the industry , have been upset seasonal retail ad spending patterns in newspapers by shifts in ownership and general hardships within the retail industry .
in new york , have filed the bonwit teller and b. altman & co. department stores for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code , while is the r.h. macy & co. , bloomingdale 's and saks fifth avenue department-store chains for sale .
is also faced many papers throughout the country with a slowdown in classified-ad spending , a booming category for newspapers in recent years .
until recently , believed had bottomed out decreases in retail ad spending and in fact would increase in this year 's third and fourth quarters industry analysts .
is all bets off , say analysts , because of the shifting ownership of the retail chains .
said `` will help offset weakness in linage , improved paper prices but have affected the amount of ad linage usually run they , the retailers ' problems '' edward j. atorino , industry analyst for salomon brothers inc .
`` is retailers just in disarray . ''
for instance , posted an 11 % gain in net income , gannett co. as dropped total ad pages at usa today , but rose advertising revenue because of a higher circulation rate base and increased rates .
reported a 3 % increase in advertising and circulation revenue gannett 's 83 daily and 35 non-daily newspapers .
said was total advertising linage `` modestly '' lower as increased classified-ad volume , while there was `` softer demand '' for retail and national ad linage , john curley , gannett 's chief executive officer .
at usa today , totaled down 9.2 % from the 1988 period , which was helped by increased ad spending from the summer olympics 785 ad pages for the quarter , .
while totaled 2,735 , a decrease of 4 % from last year , usa today 's total paid ad pages for the year to date increased 8 % the paper 's ad revenue in the quarter and 13 % in the nine months .
in the nine months , rose 9.5 % gannett 's net to $ 270 million , or $ 1.68 a share , from $ 247 million , or $ 1.52 a share .
gained 6 % revenue to $ 2.55 billion from $ 2.4 billion .
at dow jones & co. , fell 9.9 % third-quarter net income from the year-earlier period .
fell net to $ 28.8 million , or 29 cents a share , from $ 32 million , or 33 cents a share .
included a one-time gain of $ 3.5 million , or four cents a share the year-earlier period .
gained 5.3 % revenue to $ 404.1 million from $ 383.8 million .
reflected continued softness in financial advertising at the wall street journal and barron 's magazine the drop in profit , in part , .
fell 6.1 % ad linage at the journal in the third quarter .
reversed a year-earlier third quarter net loss affiliated publications inc. .
reported net of $ 8.5 million , or 12 cents a share , compared with a loss of $ 26.5 million , or 38 cents a share , the publisher of the boston globe for the third quarter in 1988 .
said continued to be hurt by softness in ad volume at the boston newspaper earnings william o. taylor , the parent 's chairman and chief executive officer , .
is being strongly affected third-quarter profit estimates for several companies by the price of newsprint , which in the last two years have had several price increases .
after caused prices to rise 14 % since 1986 to $ 650 a metric ton , a supply crunch is analysts encouraged , because do n't expect a price increase they for the rest of this year .
will need the stable newsprint prices companies with daily newspapers in the northeast to ease damage from weak ad linage .
said estimate that was times mirror co. 's earnings down for the third quarter , because of soft advertising levels at its long island newsday and hartford courant newspapers he mr. atorino at salomon brothers .
was likely offset trouble on the east coast by improved ad linage at the los angeles times , which this week also unveiled a redesign .
is expected to report lower earnings for the third quarter because of continued weak advertising levels at its flagship new york times and deep discounting of newsprint at its affiliate , forest products group new york times co. .
said `` is holding up well , times co. 's regional daily newspapers but there is little sign that will improve things in the new york market , '' alan kassan , an analyst with shearson lehman hutton .
is expected to report improved earnings , washington post co. largely because of increased cable revenue and publishing revenue helped by an improved retail market in the washington area .
according to analysts , was also helped profits by successful cost-cutting measures at newsweek .
have faced heightened competition from rival time magazine and a relatively flat magazine advertising market the news-weekly .
is faced knight-ridder inc. with continued uncertainty over the pending joint operating agreement between its detroit free press and gannett 's detroit news , and have told analysts that was earnings down in the third quarter .
however , point analysts to positive advertising spending at several of its major daily newspapers , such as the miami herald and san jose mercury news .
said `` is coming back strong the miami market after a tough couple of years `` when was starting up a hispanic edition knight-ridder and was falling circulation , '' '' bruce thorp , an analyst for provident national bank .
in a series of moves that angered union officials in the u.s. and canada , have signaled that may not survive the mid-1990s as many as five north american assembly plants as struggle to cut its excess vehicle-making capacity the corporation general motors corp. , .
in announcements to workers late last week , effectively signed death notices for two full-sized van assembly plants , gm and cast serious doubt on the futures of three u.s. car factories .
is gm under intense pressure to close factories that became unprofitable as skidded the giant auto maker 's u.s. market share during the past decade .
currently using about 80 % of its north american vehicle capacity , have vowed will run it at 100 % of capacity by 1992 the company , .
just a month ago , announced would make an aging assembly plant in lakewood , ga. , the eighth u.s. assembly facility to close since 1987 it gm .
now , appear to be stepping up the pace of its factory consolidation to get in shape for the 1990s gm .
is one reason mounting competition from new japanese car plants in the u.s. that is pouring out more than one million vehicles a year at costs lower than can match gm .
is that have signaled want tighter no-layoff provisions in the new big three national contract that will be negotiated next year they united auto workers union officials another .
want to get their strategy to reduce capacity and the work force in place before begin those talks gm officials .
however , is that is coming gm 's moves at a time when is trying to silence dissidents who charge is the union too passive in the face of gm layoffs uaw leaders the problem , .
against that backdrop , issued a statement uaw vice president stephen p. yokich , who recently became head of the union 's gm department , friday blasting gm 's `` flagrant insensitivity '' toward union members .
said showed `` disarray '' and an `` inability or unwillingness to provide consistent information , '' the auto maker 's decision to let trickle out word of the latest shutdowns and product reassignments in separate communiques to the affected plants mr. yokich .
told workers gm officials late last week of the following moves : will be consolidated production of full-sized vans into a single plant in flint , mich .
mean probably will be shut down two plants -- one in scarborough , ontario , and the other in lordstown , ohio -- after the end of 1991 that .
will idle about 3,000 canadian assembly workers and about 2,500 workers in ohio the shutdowns .
used the impending scarborough shutdown robert white , canadian auto workers union president , to criticize the u.s.-canada free trade agreement and its champion , prime minister brian mulroney .
but may benefit canadian auto workers from a separate gm move that affect three u.s. car plants and one in quebec .
was told being is no longer considered to build the next generation of the pontiac firebird and chevrolet camaro muscle cars their facilities workers at plants in van nuys , calif. , oklahoma city and pontiac , mich. , .
said is studying whether can build profitably the new camaro-firebird it at a plant in st. therese , quebec , gm company and union officials .
left union officials in van nuys and oklahoma city uncertain about their futures that announcement .
do n't have a product to build the van nuys plant , which employ about 3,000 workers , after 1993 .
said was asked to draw up plans to continue working as a `` flex plant , '' which could build several different types of products on short notice to satisfy demand the facility jerry shrieves , uaw local president , .
said at the oklahoma city plant , which employ about 6,000 workers building the eight-year-old a-body mid-sized cars , steve featherston , uaw local vice president , have lined up , no new product the plant and `` know when will die the a-body cars none of us '' .
said believe have plans to keep building a-body cars into the mid-1990s gm he he .
at pontiac , however , appear to erase uaw hopes that would reopen the shuttered assembly plant that last built the plastic-bodied , two-seater pontiac fiero model gm the camaro-firebird decision .
was viewed the fiero plant as a model of union-management cooperation at gm before forced the company to close the factory last year slow sales of the fiero .
have taken politically a beating union officials as a result .
have used the fiero plant dissident uaw members as a symbol of labor-management cooperation 's failure .
said raised an obstacle to its proposed acquisition of connaught biosciences inc. for 942 million canadian dollars ( us$ 801.6 million ) the canadian government institut merieux s.a. of france .
said told it that was he n't convinced that is the purchase likely to be of `` net benefit '' to canada the government 's minister of industry , science and technology merieux .
require that meet that standard big foreign takeovers canadian investment rules .
said gave 30 days in which to submit information to further support its takeover plan the government it the french company .
is both merieux and connaught biotechnology research and vaccine manufacturing concerns .
was the government 's action unusual .
said marked the first time in its four-year history that have made an adverse net-benefit decision about the acquisition of a publicly traded company the agency it alan nymark , executive vice president of investment canada , which oversee foreign takeovers , .
said have reached the same conclusions about some attempts to buy closely held concerns , it but eventually allowed those acquisitions to proceed he .
said `` is this n't a change in government policy ; have been used before , this provision '' jodi redmond , press secretary for harvie andre , canada 's minister of industry , science and technology .
issued the ruling mr. andre based on a recommendation by investment canada .
said had n't been informed they of specific areas of concern by either the government or investment canada , spokesmen for merieux and connaught but added hope to have more information early this week they .
declined to comment on the reasons for the government decision investment canada .
said was the government 's ruling n't unexpected viren mehta , a partner with mehta & isaly , a new york-based pharmaceutical industry research firm , .
said `` have become a very politicized deal , concerning canada 's only large , world-class bio-research or pharmaceutical company , this '' mr. mehta .
said the move that could allow the transaction to go ahead as planned could be an out-of-court settlement of connaught 's dispute with the university of toronto mr. mehta .
is seeking to block the acquisition of connaught by foreign interests , the university citing concerns about the amount of research that would be done in canada .
is considering a settlement proposal made by connaught the university .
while will disclose its contents , neither side expect it to contain more specific guarantees on research and development spending levels in canada than offered merieux to investment canada mr. mehta .
believe leave the door open for other bidders , such as switzerland 's ciba-geigy and chiron corp. of emeryville , calif the government ruling some analysts , such as murray grossner of toronto-based richardson greenshields inc. , .
could n't be reached officials for the two concerns , which is bidding c$ 30 a share for connaught , for comment .
hold 51 % of merieux french state-owned rhone-poulenc s.a. .
said canceled plans for a preferred-stock swap it but may resume payment of dividends on the stock , weatherford international inc. and added that expect to publicly offer about 10 million common shares it .
said planned to offer an undetermined number of common shares in exchange for the 585,000 shares of its preferred stock outstanding it the company .
was never established the exchange ratio .
said led market conditions to the cancellation of the planned exchange weatherford .
said however , that in january 1990 , may resume payments of dividends on the preferred stock it the energy-services concern , .
suspended its preferred-dividend payment weatherford in october 1985 and said have n't any plans to catch up on dividends in arrears about $ 6 million , it but will do so some time in the future .
additionally , said filed it with the securities and exchange commission for the proposed offering of 10 million shares of common stock , expected to be offered in november the company .
said was granted an option to buy as much as an additional 1.5 million shares to cover over-allotments salomon brothers inc. and howard , weil , labouisse , friedrichs inc. , underwriters for the offering , the company .
will be used to eliminate bank debt and restructure proceeds .
currently have approximately 11.1 million common shares outstanding weatherford .
is believed to have moved ahead briskly in the third quarter , as fared especially well companies with newer , big-selling prescription drugs earnings for most of the nation 's major pharmaceutical makers .
said that all benefited merck & co. , eli lilly & co. , warner-lambert co. and the squibb corp. unit of bristol-myers squibb co. from strong sales of relatively new , higher-priced medicines that provide wide profit margins analysts .
was attributed less robust earnings at pfizer inc. and upjohn co. to those companies ' older products , face stiffening competition from generic drugs and other medicines many of which .
said that over the past few years have shed their slow-growing businesses most drug makers and instituted other cost savings , such as consolidating manufacturing plants and administrative staffs joseph riccardo , an analyst with bear , stearns & co. , .
said as a result , `` is having significant impact , major new products even on a company with very large revenues , '' mr. riccardo .
said is estimated to have climbed between 11 % and 14 % profit for the dozen or so big drug makers , as a group , analysts .
while be that not spectacular , said that `` will look especially good as compared to other companies the rate of growth if turn downward the economy '' neil sweig , an analyst with prudential bache , .
estimated that rose merck 's profit for the quarter by about 22 % , propelled by sales of its line-up of fast-growing prescription drugs , including its anti-cholesterol drug , mevacor ; a high blood pressure medicine , vasotec ; primaxin , an antibiotic , and pepcid , an anti-ulcer medication mr. sweig .
said climbed profit though even was reduced merck 's sales by `` one to three percentage points '' as a result of the strong dollar , mr. sweig .
in the third quarter of 1988 , earned $ 311.8 million , or 79 cents a share merck .
in rahway , n.j. , said do n't make earnings projections the company a merck spokesman .
said estimated that jumped about 20 % , lilly 's earnings for the quarter largely because of the performance of its new anti-depressant prozac he mr. sweig .
is expected to generate sales of about $ 300 million this year the drug , introduced last year , .
said `` be turning out to be a real blockbuster , it '' mr. sweig .
in last year 's third quarter , earned $ 171.4 million , or $ 1.20 a share lilly .
in indianapolis , declined comment lilly .
said expected warner-lambert 's profit also to increase by more than 20 % from $ 87.7 million , or $ 1.25 a share , reported it in the like period last year they several analysts .
is praised the company by analysts for sharply lowering its costs in recent years and shedding numerous companies with low profit margins .
said analysts , allowed sharp-rising sales from its cholesterol drug , lopid , to power earnings growth the company 's lean operation , .
is expected to be about $ 300 million this year , up from $ 190 million in 1988 lopid sales .
in morris plains , n.j. , said is the analysts ' projections `` in the ballpark '' a spokesman for the company .
estimated to be about 18 % above the $ 123 million , or $ 1.25 a share , earned it in the third quarter of 1988 , by analysts was squibb 's profit , the result of especially strong sales of its capoten drug for treating high blood pressure and other heart disease .
was officially merged the company with bristol-myers co. earlier this month .
declined to comment bristol-myers .
said that is schering-plough corp. 's expected profit rise of about 18 % to 20 % , and bristol-meyers 's expected profit increase of about 13 % because `` largely is really managed well those companies '' mr. riccardo of bear stearns .
earned $ 94.4 million , or 84 cents a share , scheringplough while earned $ 232.3 million , or 81 cents a share , bristol-myers in the like period a year earlier .
in madison , n.j. , said have `` no problems '' with the average estimate by a analysts that rose third-quarter earnings per share by about 19 % , to $ 1 the company a spokesman for schering-plough .
said expect to achieve the 20 % increase in full-year earnings per share , as projected it in the spring , the company the spokesman .
meanwhile , said continued pfizer 's recent string of lackluster quarterly performances , as was expected to decline by about 5 % earnings in the quarter analysts .
have shrunk sales of pfizer 's important drugs , feldene for treating arthritis , and procardia , a heart medicine , because of increased competition .
said `` hurt too , pfizer the ( strong ) dollar a lot , '' mr. sweig .
in the third quarter last year , earned $ 216.8 million , or $ 1.29 a share pfizer .
in new york , declined comment the company .
said expected upjohn 's profit to be flat or rise by only about 2 % to 4 % as compared with $ 89.6 million , or 49 cents a share , earned a year ago it they analysts .
is upjohn 's biggest-selling drugs xanax , a tranquilizer , and halcion , a sedative .
have been hurt sales of both drugs by new state laws restricting the prescriptions of certain tranquilizing medicines and adverse publicity about the excessive use of the drugs .
said also , is selling well the company 's hair-growing drug , rogaine , -- at about $ 125 million for the year , but have been reduced the company 's profit from the drug by upjohn 's expensive print and television campaigns for advertising , analysts .
in kalamazoo , mich. , declined comment upjohn .
amid a crowd of crashing stocks , fell particularly hard relational technology inc. 's stock friday , dropping 23 % because was compounded its problems by disclosure of an unexpected loss for its fiscal first quarter .
said expect a $ 2 million net loss for the fiscal first quarter ended sept. 30 it the database software company .
said had been expecting a small profit for the period analysts it .
is expected to be `` up modestly '' from the $ 26.5 million reported a year ago revenue .
reported net income of $ 1.5 million , or 12 cents a share , in the year-earlier period relational technology .
said `` while showed strong growth , our international operations was our domestic business substantially below expectations , '' paul newton , president and chief executive officer .
said a spokesman is the company 's first quarter historically soft , and is experiencing slower sales computer companies in general .
said accepted the resignation of thomas wilson , vice president of corporate sales , he and that have been reassigned his marketing responsibilities mr. newton .
said was n't related mr. wilson 's resignation to the sales shortfall the company .
went public relational technology in may 1988 at $ 14 a share .
fell $ 1.875 a share it friday , to $ 6.25 , a new low , in over-the-counter trading .
was its high for the past year $ 16.375 a share .
in the previous quarter , earned $ 4.5 million , or 37 cents a share , the company on sales of $ 47.2 million .
have a wonderful botanical garden , a great zoo , its own charming little italy ( on arthur avenue ) and , of course , the yankees the bronx .
having been subjected to news footage of the devastated south bronx , however , look the way tom wolfe 's sherman mccoy did in `` bonfire of the vanities '' most people , at the borough -- as a wrong turn into hell .
but is laura cunningham 's bronx , her childhood bronx of the '50s , something else altogether .
in a lovely , novelistic memoir , `` sleeping arrangements '' ( knopf , 195 pages , $ 18.95 ) , remember an exotic playground , peopled mainly by jewish eccentrics and the occasional catholic ( real oddballs like her sexpot friend , the hell-kitten diana , age five ) she .
have a vivid and dramatically outsized sense of recall ms. cunningham , a novelist and playwright , .
transform her `` bronx of the emotions , a place where is only relieved the flats of mediocrity by steep descents into hysteria '' she into the `` babylonian bronx , '' a world simmering with sex and death and intrigue .
in the babylonian bronx , lived jewish working-class people in drab , soviet-style buildings `` glamorized '' with names like anamor towers ( after owners anna and morris snezak ) , was decorated whose lobbies and hallways with murals of ancient syrians and greeks , friezes of pompeii .
for ms. cunningham matched the discrepancy felt living in the anamor towers as a little girl she : `` ... '' outwardly ordinary , inwardly ornate , owing all inspiration to heathen cultures the architectural discombobulation .
sharp-witted and funny but never mean , be she a memorialist a bit like truman capote , if he 'd been jewish and female and less bitchy .
really was little lily , as call herself ms. cunningham in the book , n't ordinary .
was raised by her mother , rosie , whom remember she as a loving liar , who realigned history to explain why did n't live lily 's father with them she , for the first eight years , .
reinvented this man , who may or may not have known about his child , rosie as a war hero for lily 's benefit .
died young rosie and have remembered her lily as a romantic figure , who did n't interfere much with her child 's education on the streets .
seem tame the games played bronx children ( holding down kids and stripping them , for example ) by today 's crack standards , but make all sound it like a great adventure ms. cunningham .
write `` without official knowledge of sex or death , flirted we with both , '' she .
analyzed families she by their sleeping arrangements .
slept her friend susan , kept reminding her was she unwanted , whose parents on a narrow bed wedged into her parents ' bedroom , as though was she a temporary visitor .
was her friend diana 's father a professional thief ; did n't seem to have any bedrooms at all they .
maybe became so obsessed with where slept people and how lily because kept shifting her own arrangements .
when died rosie , moved in her uncles -- and let make the sleeping and other household arrangements her .
painted the apartment orange , pink and white , they according to her instructions .
with loving detail recall her uncle gabe , an orthodox jew and song lyricist ( who rhymed river with liver in a love song ) ; and uncle len , a mysterious part-time investigator who looked like lincoln and carried a change of clothing in a manila envelope , like an `` undercover president on a good-will mission '' she .
came honestly they by their strangeness .
excised the heads of disliked relatives lily 's grandmother , no cookie baker , from the family album , and lugged around her perennial work-in-progress , `` philosophy for women '' .
lose some momentum the book toward the end , when become more preoccupied with dating boys and less with her delightfully weird family lily .
also figure the bronx in bruce jay friedman 's latest novel , which flash back to the new york of the '50s .
but feel cramped and static both the past and present worlds of `` the current climate '' ( atlantic monthly press , 200 pages , $ 18.95 ) .
for his sixth novel , tried to resuscitate the protagonist of his 1972 work , `` about harry towns '' mr. friedman .
is harry now a 57-year-old writer , seem quaintly out-of-synch whose continuing flirtation with drugs and marginal types in hollywood and new york .
fondly remember the `` old '' days of the early '70s , when would take a psychiatrist people like his friend travis on a date to analyze what was doing wrong travis harry .
`` an l.a. solution , '' explain mr. friedman .
line by line mr. friedman 's weary cynicism can be amusing , especially when be riffing he on the hollywood social scheme -- the way size up , each other immediately canceling the desperate ones who merely almost made it people .
have avoided all that harry by living in a long island suburb with his wife , who 's so addicted to soap operas and mystery novels barely seem to notice when disappear her husband for drug-seeking forays into manhattan she .
but do n't take too many lines it to figure out harry .
be he a bore .
said agreed to pay $ 1.5 million as part of an accord with the environmental protection agency regarding an environmental cleanup of a defunct smelter formerly operated the company in idaho it gulf resources & chemical corp. .
in 1984 notified gulf resources , which was a part-owner of the smelter , that was it potentially liable for sharing cleanup costs at the site under the federal superfund program the epa .
is the 21-square-mile area contaminated with lead , zinc and other metals .
earlier this year proposed a reorganization plan that would make it a unit of a bermuda concern , potentially exempting it from liability for the smelter 's cleanup costs gulf resources .
said that as part of its agreement with the epa , `` made certain voluntary undertakings it with respect to intercorporate transactions entered into after the reorganization '' the company .
said that was previously provided $ 1 million of the payment for in its financial statements and that will be recognized $ 500,000 in its 1989 third-quarter statement the company , which issued a statement on the agreement late friday , .
said is the agreement and consent decree subject to court approval , the company .
added that `` will seek to recover equitable contribution from others for both the amount of the settlement and any other liabilities may incur it under the superfund law it '' gulf resources .
under the agreement , must give 45 days ' advance written notice gulf the u.s. government before issuing any dividends on common stock .
can not fall the company 's net worth below $ 185 million after is issued the dividends .
said `` only become effective the date of gulf 's reorganization , which anticipate will occur sometime in early 1990 , we the terms of that agreement '' lawrence r. mehl , gulf 's general counsel .
in addition , must give 20 days ' advance written notice of any loans exceeding $ 50 million that is made to the bermuda-based holding company gulf the government .
separately , said expect to hold a special meeting for shareholders in early 1990 to vote on its proposed reorganization it the company .
assuming that do n't head the market into a bottomless free fall , think could prove a harbinger of good news -- as a sign that may be abating the leveraged buy-out and takeover frenzy of recent years friday 's action some executives .
said `` is this a reaction to artificial lbo valuations , rather than to any fundamentals , '' john young , chairman of hewlett-packard co. , dropped $ 3.125 whose shares to $ 48.125 .
`` if get rid of a lot of that nonsense , we it will be a big plus . ''
were a few of the executives here for the fall meeting of the business council , a group that meet to discuss national issues , only too happy to personalize their criticism .
said `` wish would do something the government about leveraged buy-outs , do something about takeovers , do something about donald trump , people '' rand araskog , chairman of itt corp. , dropped $ 3.375 whose stock .
where 's the guy who can say ` is enough enough ' : '' ?
was the executives remarkably unperturbed by the plunge though even lopped billions of dollars it off the value of their companies -- and millions off their personal fortunes .
said `` be not going to worry about one day 's decline , i '' kenneth olsen , digital equipment corp. president , who was leisurely strolling through the bright orange and yellow leaves of the mountains here after plunged $ 5.75 his company 's shares to close at $ 86.50 .
`` did n't bother calling anybody i ; i did n't even turn on tv '' .
added `` there has n't been any fundamental change in the economy , '' john smale , took whose an $ 8.75 slide procter & gamble co. to close at $ 120.75 .
`` give some comfort that this wo n't be a problem the fact that happened two years ago this and there was a recovery people '' .
of course , often tend to applaud the setbacks of stock speculators and takeover artists established corporate managements .
indeed , was one chief executive who was downright delighted by friday 's events robert crandall , chairman of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines and the target of a takeover offer by mr. trump .
asked whether could help avoid being trumped by the new york real estate magnate , him friday 's action smiled broadly mr. crandall and said : `` no comment '' .
on friday morning , before the market 's sell-off , issued a report predicting would grow the economy at roughly an inflation-adjusted 2 % annual rate , through next year , then accelerate anew in 1991 the business leaders .
said projected periods of decline in the nation 's output over the next two years , of the 19 economists who worked on the business council forecast , only two and `` in both instances is the declines too modest to warrant the phrase recession , '' lewis preston , chairman of j.p. morgan & co. and vice chairman of the business council .
is also affecting the city 's retail real estate market the real estate slump that be pushing down the price of new york office space and housing .
in manhattan , sit vacant once-desirable store sites and newly constructed space has been slow to fill .
say is tenants reluctant to sign leases because of uncertainty about the local economy , turmoil in their own industries and a belief that have not yet hit bottom rents retail real estate brokers .
say `` there is an unbelievable amount of space available , '' faith consolo , senior vice president at garrick-aug associates store leasing inc .
there is up from a more typical range of 1,200 to 1,500 about 2,000 stores for rent , .
say `` further confuse retailers , this '' she .
`` wonder they should sign a lease they if is still coming down prices ?
in addition , say ms. consolo , usually can negotiate to pay rents that are about one-quarter lower than landlords ' initial asking price tenants .
and , in some neighborhoods , have merely hit a plateau rents .
say but on average , have dropped 10 % to 15 % manhattan retail rents in the past six months alone , experts .
follow a more subtle decline in the prior six months , after had run up rapidly manhattan rents since 1986 that .
have affected retailing the same factors limiting demand for office space .
say `` as contract businesses or depart , shrink the number of employees who might use retail services , '' edward a. friedman , senior vice president of helmsley spear inc .
say have further deflated the market financial problems plaguing electronics , fur and furniture companies -- key categories in the local retail economy -- he .
hardest hit are call he what `` secondary '' sites that primarily serve neighborhood residents .
in these locations , say mr. friedman , `` is retailers increasingly cautious about expanding and have remained steady rents or in some cases have declined . ''
exacerbate the problem weakness in the restaurant industry , which is leaving retail space vacant , for landlords .
is it also no comfort to landlords and small new york retailers when is the future of larger department stores , which anchor retail neighborhoods , in doubt .
is mired hooker corp. , parent of bonwit teller and b. altman 's , in bankruptcy proceedings and is bloomingdale 's for sale by its owner , campeau corp .
may seem surprising the trend toward lower rents given that is bemoaning the loss of favorite local businesses to high rents some communities in new york .
but , despite the recent softening , for many of these retailers there 's still been too big a jump from the rental rates of the late 1970s , when was signed their leases .
certainly , do n't mean come cheap manhattan the recent drop in prices .
still run new york retail rents well above the going rate in other u.s. cities .
can command rents of up to $ 500 a square foot , madison and fifth avenues and east 57th street and is $ 250 not uncommon .
offer rents of about $ 100 a square foot , the thriving 34th street area as do up-and-coming locations along lower fifth avenue .
by contrast , rarely top $ 100 a square foot rentals in the best retail locations in boston , san francisco and chicago .
and generally do n't exceed about $ 125 a square foot rents on beverly hills ' rodeo drive .
said will begin trading two securities this week the new york stock exchange .
will begin trading with the symbol pcp precision castparts corp. , portland , ore. , .
make investment castings it and has traded over-the-counter .
will list american depositary shares , royal bank of scotland group plc , an edinburgh , scotland , financial services company , representing preferred shares , with the symbol rbspr .
will continue to trade on the international stock exchange , london it .
listed shares of two companies the american stock exchange .
started trading with the symbol aim aim telephones inc. , a parsippany , n.j. , telecommunications equipment supply company , .
had traded over-the-counter it .
began trading with the symbol cob columbia laboratories inc. , miami , .
had traded over-the-counter the pharmaceuticals maker .
listed shares of one company the national market system of the nasdaq over-the-counter market .
was listed employee benefit plans inc. , a minneapolis health-care services company , with the symbol ebpi .
when mark the start of his 34th year on the supreme court justice william brennan today , will differ sharply the occasion from previous anniversaries of his tenure .
for the first time , find his influence the 83-year-old justice almost exclusively in dissent , rather than as a force in the high court 's majority .
hold as well , true , this role reversal for his three liberal and moderate allies , justices thurgood marshall , harry blackmun and john stevens .
but is these four players , three of them in their 80s , ready to assume a different role after 88 years , collectively , of service on the high court ?
is that are the four prepared to accept this new role , and the frustrations that go with it , but in different ways every indication .
appear philosophical about it justices brennan and stevens ; appear fighting mad justices marshall and blackmun .
is the four justices no newcomers to dissent , often joining forces in the past decade to criticize the court 's conservative drift .
but in years past , always , have bucked the trend they and have been able to pick up a fifth vote to eke out a number of major victories in civil rights and liberties cases .
now , however , as continue to solidify , the court 's new five-member conservative majority is victories for the liberals rare .
is the change most dramatic for justice brennan , the last survivor of the mid-1960s liberal majority under chief justice earl warren .
in the seven supreme court terms from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1967 , the height of the warren court 's power , cast only 25 dissenting votes justice brennan in 555 cases decided by the court .
last term alone cast 52 dissenting votes he in 133 decisions , with the contentious flag-burning ruling as his only big victory .
but foresaw his new role , justice brennan strongly defending the importance of dissents in a 1985 speech .
said `` each time revisit an issue , the court will be forced to reconsider the fundamental questions and to rethink the result , the justices by a dissent '' he .
in recent months moreover , have said that when was he on the winning side in the 1960s , knew that might turn the tables in the future he he .
have said that now know how felt justice john harlan , he he a reference to the late conservative justice who was the most frequent dissenter from the warren court 's opinions .
say was he `` depressed '' about the court 's direction last spring , but is feisty about his role and determined to speak out against the court 's cutbacks in civil rights associates of 81-year-old justice marshall .
said `` could sweep it we under the rug and hide it , but be not going to do it , i '' he in a speech last month .
consider like justice brennan , dissents highly important for the future , he , a point have n't escaped legal scholars that .
say there is a `` generation-skipping '' flavor to current dissents harvard law school professor laurence tribe .
say he , appeared to be writing for the short-term , suggesting that might change soon the court 's direction the dissenters in the warren court , .
say `` is speaking brennan and marshall in their dissents to a more distant future , '' he .
also seem feisty about his new role justice blackmun , who will turn 81 next month , .
say take more personally than his colleagues , some defeats especially attempts to curtail the right to abortion first recognized in his 1973 opinion , roe vs. wade he associates .
said was he no more discouraged about the court than in recent years friends and associates who saw justice blackmun during the summer .
and improved his outlook after successful cataract surgery in august .
but showed his level of frustration in a recent , impassioned speech to a group of hundreds of lawyers in chicago .
concluded his remarks he by quoting emotionally and at some length , the late martin luther king 's famous `` have a dream i '' speech from the 1963 march on washington , according to those present , .
is justice stevens , 69 , probably the most philosophical of the dissenters about his role , in part because he may be the least liberal of the four , but also because enjoy more than the others the intellectual challenge of arguing with the majority he .
say if is the role is assuming these four dissenters a familiar one in modern supreme court history , also differ it in an important way from recent history , court watchers .
`` was often defending a legal legacy inherited that they , the dissenters of the warren court '' say prof. a.e. dick howard of the university of virginia law school , `` but is defending a legacy created that they the dissenters today .
sold the deposits of four savings-and-loan institutions , the government in its first wave of sales of big , sick thrifts , but prevented the sale of a fifth low bids .
was sold the four s&ls to large banks , as was the case with most of the 28 previous transactions initiated by the resolution trust corp. since was created two months ago it in the s&l bailout legislation .
were sold two of the four big thrifts to ncnb corp. , charlotte , n.c. , which have aggressively expanded its markets , particularly in texas and florida .
bought another thrift , a canadian bank in the first rtc transaction with a foreign bank .
under these deals , sell just the deposits and the healthy assets the rtc .
leave the bulk of bad assets , mostly real estate , these `` clean-bank '' transactions with the government , to be sold later .
in these four , for instance , is stuck the rtc with $ 4.51 billion in bad assets .
paid premiums ranging from 1.5 % to 3.7 % acquirers for the deposits and branch systems , roughly in line with what were expecting analysts .
will also be locked the buyers into deposit rates for just two weeks , as has been the case with previous deals .
after that , may repudiate the rates paid by the former thrifts the buyers .
but be it uncertain whether will take those steps these institutions .
ncnb , for example , has been one of the highest rate payers in the texas market , and in florida , is rates especially sensitive in retirement communities .
had previously targeted five thrifts the rtc for quick sales in order to spend cash by certain budgetary deadlines , but illustrate the tough chore facing the agency the delays .
said `` is these thrifts beached whales , '' bert ely , an industry consultant based in alexandria , va .
for example , have forced the rtc to consider selling off branch-by-branch , instead of as a whole institution the thrift the delay in selling people 's heritage savings , salina , kan. , with $ 1.7 billion in assets , .
continued its foray into the florida and texas markets ncnb .
will acquire university federal savings association , houston , which had assets of $ 2.8 billion ncnb .
will pay a premium of $ 129 million ncnb texas national bank the rtc for $ 3.5 billion in deposits .
as a measure of the depths to which have sunk the texas real estate market , will pay $ 3.8 billion the rtc to ncnb to take $ 750 million of bad assets .
also acquired freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , which had total assets of $ 900 million ncnb .
will pay a premium of $ 40.4 million ncnb the rtc for $ 1.1 billion in deposits .
will also acquire $ 266 million of freedom 's assets ncnb from the rtc , which will require $ 875 million in assistance .
will acquire hill financial savings association , red hill , pa. , which had $ 2.3 billion in assets meridian bancorp inc. , reading , pa. , .
will pay a premium of $ 30.5 million meridian to assume $ 2 billion in deposits .
will also purchase $ 845 million of the thrift 's assets , it with $ 1.9 billion in rtc assistance .
in the first rtc transaction with a foreign buyer , will acquire pacific savings bank , costa mesa , calif. , which had $ 949 million in assets royal trustco ltd. , toronto , .
will pay $ 25 million royal trustco the rtc to assume $ 989 million in deposits .
will also purchase $ 473 million in assets , it and receive $ 550 million in assistance from the rtc .
was recently filed the following issues with the securities and exchange commission :
pacificare health systems inc. , proposed offering of 1.5 million common shares , of which will be offered 700,000 shares by pacificare and 800,000 shares by unihealth america inc . ( pacificare 's 71 % ) , via dillon , read & co. inc. , goldman , sachs & co. and dean witter reynolds inc .
in a move to reduce the costs of wooing new subscribers , is lowering its circulation guarantee to advertisers time magazine , for the second consecutive year , increasing its subscription rates and cutting back on merchandise giveaways .
in an announcement to its staff last week , said `` will dramatically de-emphasize its use of electronic giveaways such as telephones in television subscription drives time '' ; cut the circulation guarantee advertisers it by 300,000 , to four million ; and increase the cost of its annual subscription rate by about $ 4 to $ 55 executives at time warner inc. 's weekly magazine .
in a related development , for the fourth year in a row , said wo n't increase its advertising rates it in 1990 the news-weekly , ; cost about $ 120,000 a full , four-color page in the magazine .
however , because is being lowered the guaranteed circulation base , ad rates will be effectively 7.5 % higher per subscriber , according to richard heinemann , time associate publisher .
is following the course of some other mass-circulation magazines in recent years have challenged the publishing myth that maintaining artificially high , and expensive , circulations is the way to draw advertisers that time .
in recent years , have cut their massive circulation rate bases reader 's digest , new york times co. 's mccall 's , and most recently news corp. 's tv guide , to eliminate marginal circulation and hold down rates for advertisers .
have become accepted forms of attracting new subscribers deep discounts in subscriptions and offers of free clock radios and watches in the hyper-competitive world of magazine news-weeklies .
but as part of the more cost-conscious time warner , want to wean away itself from expensive gimmicks time , .
besides , think selling a news magazine with a clock radio is tacky time executives .
said `` just give the wrong image , giveaways people '' mr. heinemann .
`` take the focus that perception off the magazine '' .
predictably paint the circulation cut time magazine executives as a show of strength and actually a benefit to advertisers .
said `` is screening out the readers who are only casually related to the magazine and do n't really read it , what are doing we '' mr. heinemann .
`` is trying to create quality and involvement we '' .
however , used the same explanation time executives in october 1988 when cut its guaranteed circulation the magazine from 4.6 million to 4.3 million .
and according to audit bureau of circulations , dropped 7.3 % time 's paid circulation , to 4,393,237 in the six months ended june 30 , 1989 .
still , is being received well , once again time 's move .
said `` be it terrific for to know will be paying more , the reader advertisers '' michael drexler , national media director at bozell inc. ad agency .
`` is a few drops in circulation of no consequence .
be it not a show of weakness ; is improving the quality of circulation they while insuring their profits . ''
said represent a new focus in the magazine industry : a magazine 's net revenue per subscriber , or the actual revenue from subscribers after have been stripped away discounts and the cost of premiums the changes mr. heinemann .
said `` is how much is getting we from each reader , the question '' mr. heinemann .
is time 's rivals news-weeklies , washington post co. 's newsweek and u.s. news & world report , less reliant on electronic giveaways , and in recent years have been increasing their circulation rate bases both .
is expected to announce their ad rates and circulation levels for 1990 within a month both magazines .
when broke two weeks ago , the news of an attempted coup in panama called the state department sen. christopher dodd for a briefing .
' told `` said follow cnn , they , ` '' reporters he .
show how far have come ted turner 's cable news network since its birth nine years ago , when was considered the laughingstock of television news it that .
is it bigger , faster and more profitable than the news divisions of any of the three major broadcast networks .
draw elite audiences its niche as the `` network of record '' during major crises around the world .
but for all its success , have hit a plateau cnn .
although viewership soars when break big news , ebb it during periods of calm .
worry that may be getting stale the network 's punchy but repetitive news format and wo n't keep coming back viewers as multiply the alternatives for news and information on cable-tv cnn executives .
say `` is just the fact be we on 24 hours no longer bulletin , '' ed turner , cnn 's executive vice president , news gathering ( and no relation to ted turner ) .
so is trying to reposition itself as a primary channel , or call what a `` top of mind '' network people in the television industry cnn , a unit of atlanta-based turner broadcasting system inc. , .
tonight , to kick off the effort , will premiere its first prime-time newscast in years , an hourlong show at 6 p.m . eastern time to air head-to-head against the network newscasts cnn .
will be co-anchored the show by bernard shaw and catherine crier , a 34-year-old former texas judge and campus beauty queen who have never held a job in television or journalism .
is the new show perhaps the boldest in a number of steps is taking to build audience loyalty by shifting away from its current format toward more full-length `` signature '' programming with recognizable stars the network .
to distinguish itself , is also expanding international coverage cnn and adding a second global-news program .
is paying higher salaries it -- after years of scrimping -- to lure experienced staffers and keep .
and is embarking it on an expensive gamble to break major stories with a large investigative-reporting team .
says `` is to get to become a point of reference at ordinary dinner tables , beyond the opinion leaders who use us as a point of reference the next stage '' jon petrovich , executive vice president of headline news , cnn 's sister network .
like other consumer products , develop images in peoples ' minds that are n't easy to change networks , .
also take money that cnn has been reluctant to spend it to make programs and hire talent will tune in specially that to see viewers .
and the cable-tv operators -- cnn 's distributors and part owners -- like things just the way is they .
is aimed the repositioning bid at cnn 's unsteady viewership -- and what may happen to it as grows more competitive the cable-tv news market .
already , is facing stronger competition from financial news network inc. and general electric co. 's consumer news and business channel , are both of which likely to pursue more general news in the future cnn .
in addition , is airing more local and regional news programs produced by local broadcast stations many cable-tv systems themselves .
want to change its viewers ' habits cnn .
is its watchers , on the whole , a disloyal group of channel-zapping `` grazers '' and news junkies , who spend an average of just 26 minutes a day watching cnn , according to audience research .
be that less than one-third the time that watch the major broadcast networks viewers .
could put it the brief attention give cnn viewers at a disadvantage as become more important to cable-tv channels ratings data , and advertising , .
have been molded cnn 's viewer habits by its format .
have been to serve as a tv wire service its strategy in the past .
focused as took place events so could go quicker and longer than other networks live it it on building up its news bureaus around the world , .
filled its daily schedule it with newscasts called `` daybreak , '' `` daywatch , '' `` newsday , '' and `` newsnight , '' but varied little the shows in content , personality or look .
now , is the push on for more-distinctive shows .
say `` is to create more programs with an individual identity , our goal '' paul amos , cnn executive vice president for programming .
say accordingly , is adding a world-affairs show in the morning cnn because show is its global-news hour in the afternoon among its most `` differentiated '' programs in viewers ' minds , surveys mr. amos .
and is exploring other original programs , similar to its `` larry king live '' and `` crossfire '' talk shows , which hope will keep tuned in people executives it .
then there be `` the world today , '' the prime-time newscast featuring mr. shaw and ms. crier .
until now , have featured its hollywood gossip show cnn during the key evening period .
discovered but do so 70 % of the cable-television-equipped households that watch news between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. , the network , so want in cnn .
say will probably do two live interviews a day , the shaw-crier team with at least for now , appearing similar to cnn 's other newcasts most of the program , mr. amos .
say `` find hard to conceive it of switching over people to cnn for at least in the public 's mind , what , is the same news , i '' reuven frank , the former two-time president of nbc news and creator of the huntley-brinkley report .
is also slated the evening news as cnn 's stage for its big push into investigative journalism .
in august , hired award-winning producer pamela hill , the former head of news specials at abc the network .
be assembling a staff of about 35 investigative reporters who will produce weekly , in-depth segments , with an eye toward breaking big stories she .
hope will generate excitement the headlines created by such scoops for its `` branded '' programs , in the way did so well `` 60 minutes '' for cbs cnn executives .
be that such a departure from the past that are many in the industry skeptical will follow through cnn with its investigative commitment , after especially see the cost of producing in-depth pieces it .
say `` have never shown any inclination to spend money on production , they '' michael mosettig , a senior producer with macneil-lehrer newshour , who notes that is cnn indispensable to his job .
have always ranged resulting in a less-experienced work force the network 's salaries far below industry standards , .
recently gave raises of as much as 15 % , cnn most employees but they 're still drastically underpaid compared with the networks .
say `` is cnn my wire service ; be they on top of everything mr. mosettig : .
but to improve , have really got to make the investment in people they '' .
in any case , have reason to fear any tinkering with cnn 's format cable-tv-system operators .
market cable-tv they on the very grazing opportunities seek to discourage cnn .
say `` would obviously be upset we if evolved those kinds of services into more general-interest , long-format programming , '' robert stengel , senior vice president , programming , of continental cablevision inc. , which hold a 2 % stake in turner broadcasting .
did not repudiate contrary to your sept. 8 article `` back too late texaco 's view court in pennzoil case -- '' the position took pennzoil co. in its dispute with texaco , the second u.s. circuit court of appeals opinion in the arcadian phosphate case .
was that will not enforce agreements to which did not intend to be bound the parties courts the fundamental rule of contract law applied to both cases .
in the pennzoil/texaco litigation , found intended to be bound pennzoil and getty oil the courts ; in arcadian phosphates found there was no intention to be bound they .
admittedly , is the principle in the cases the same .
but almost always turn the outcome of a legal dispute on the facts .
and as found by the various courts in these two lawsuits , was the facts , different .
said withdrew its application to buy five valley federal branches , imperial corp. of america from regulators leaving the transaction in limbo valley federal savings & loan association .
appear the broken purchase as additional evidence of trouble at imperial corp. , said withdrew its application the company from the federal office of thrift supervision because of an informal notice that failed to meet community reinvestment act requirements imperial 's thrift unit whose spokesman .
require savings and loan associations to lend money in amounts related to areas where is received deposits the community reinvestment act .
announced in august , included about $ 146 million in deposits at the five outlets in california 's san joaquin valley the transaction , .
was n't disclosed terms , but had said expected to post a modest pretax gain and to save annually about $ 2 million in operating costs it valley federal .
said that is considering whether to seek another buyer for the branches or to pursue the transaction with imperial corp. , which said is attempting to meet community reinvestment act requirements it it valley federal friday .
is based valley federal , with assets of $ 3.3 billion , in van nuys .
is imperial corp. , based in san diego , the parent of imperial savings & loan .
in the first six months of the year posted a net loss of $ 33.1 million it .
call it the `` be we too broke to fight '' defense .
is trying a new tack lawyers for dozens of insolvent savings and loan associations in their efforts to defuse suits filed by borrowers , developers and creditors .
claim that should be dismissed the suits , numbering 700 to 1,000 in texas alone , as moot because have the money to pay judgments neither the s&ls nor the extinct federal savings and loan insurance corp. the thrifts ' lawyers .
though may have a common-sense ring the argument to it , concede there be little precedent to back their position even the s&l lawyers .
still , have signaled be it willing to entertain the notion , one federal appeals court and have renewed their arguments the lawyers in texas and eight other states where is permitted the defense under state law .
could go a long way the dismissal of the pending suits toward clearing court dockets in texas and reducing the fslic 's massive legal bills , which topped $ 73 million last year .
was encouraged the s&l lawyers last month by an appellate-court ruling in two cases brought against defunct sunbelt savings & loan association of dallas by the developers of the valley ranch , best known as the training center for the dallas cowboys football team .
foreclosed sunbelt on the ranch .
argued `` that there will never be any assets with which to satisfy a judgment against sunbelt savings nor any means to collect from any other party , including fslic '' sunbelt and the fslic to the fifth u.s. circuit court of appeals .
`` if true , '' wrote the court , `` would justify dismissal of these actions this contention on prudential grounds '' .
but said lacked enough financial information about sunbelt and the fslic it the court and sent back to federal district court in dallas the cases .
say plan to file a brief this week urging the district judge to dismiss the suits , he because exceeded its assets sunbelt 's liabilities by about $ 2 billion when closed it federal regulators in august 1988 charles haworth , a lawyer for sunbelt , .
say `` is this institution just brain dead , '' mr. haworth , a partner in the dallas office of andrews & kurth , a houston law firm .
but dismiss such arguments a lawyer for triland investment group , the developer of valley ranch , as a `` defense du jour '' .
say a judgment for triland could be satisfied in ways other than a monetary award , including the reversal of sunbelt 's foreclosure on valley ranch attorney richard jackson of dallas .
say `` be asking the court we for a number of things can grant he in addition to the thrill of victory , '' he .
`` 'd take free and clear the valley ranch we as a booby prize .
resigned citing personal reasons kenneth j. thygerson , who was named president of this thrift holding company in august , , .
said had planned to travel between the job in denver and his san diego home , he but has found the commute too difficult to continue mr. thygerson .
was n't named a new president .
freed the anc 's sisulu and seven other political prisoners south africa .
brandishing flags of the outlawed african national congress , many gave a tumultuous reception thousands of supporters , the anti-apartheid activists upon their return to black townships across the country .
said was equality for blacks in south africa in reach the 77-year-old sisulu , sentenced along with black nationalist nelson mandela to life in 1964 for plotting to overthrow the government , .
was viewed the releases , announced last week by president de klerk , as pretoria 's tacit legalization of the anc .
remain mandela , considered the most prominent leader of the anc , in prison .
but is widely expected his release within the next few months .
reported that was piled up thousands of tons of goods needed to ease widespread shortages across the nation at ports and rail depots , and was rotting food shipments because of a lack of people and equipment to move the cargo the soviet union .
was cited strikes and mismanagement , and warned premier ryzhkov of `` tough measures '' .
indicated there might be `` room for flexibility '' in a bill to allow federal funding of abortions for poor women who are vicitims of rape and incest bush .
reiterated his opposition to such funding , he but expressed hope of a compromise .
at a news conference friday , also renewed a call for the ouster of panama 's noriega the president , .
said have n't any right to abortion without the consent of their parents minors the white house .
was stated the administration 's policy in a friend-of-the-court brief urging the supreme court to give more leeway to restrict abortions states .
announced that have been given the authority to seize overseas u.s. fugitives without the permission of foreign governments the fbi the justice department .
emphasized that would n't be invoked the new policy by the bush administration without full consideration of foreign-policy implications secretary of state baker friday .
pronounced the space shuttle atlantis ready for launch tomorrow following a five-day postponement of the flight because of a faulty engine computer nasa .
was replaced the device .
is to dispatch the galileo space probe on an exploration mission to jupiter the spacecraft 's five astronauts .
traveled south korea 's president roh for a five-day visit that is expected to focus on ties between washington and seoul to the u.s. .
is to meet with bush tomorrow roh , who is facing calls for the reduction of u.s. military forces in south korea , and is to address a joint session of congress on wednesday .
voted to purge the party of `` hostile and anti-party elements '' and wealthy private businessmen , called whom exploiters they china 's communist leadership .
reported by the official xinhua news agency , indicated that is intensifying the crackdown prompted by student-led pro-democracy protests in june the decision , .
flocked bringing the number of emigres expected to flee to the west beginning today to more than 1,200 hundreds of east germans to bonn 's embassy in warsaw , .
escaped more than 2,100 others to west germany through hungary over the weekend .
in leipzig , vowed to continue street protests to demand internal change activists .
met zaire 's president mobutu in southern france with angolan rebel leader savimbi and a senior u.s. envoy in a bid to revive an accord to end angola 's civil war .
was n't disclosed details of the talks , described by a zairean official as `` very delicate , '' .
insisted plo leader arafat on guarantees that any elections in the israeli-occupied territories would be impartial .
made his remarks he to a plo gathering in baghdad .
in the occupied lands , rejected a u.s. plan to arrange israeli-palestinian talks underground leaders of the arab uprising as opposed holding such discussions in cairo shamir .
presented proposals for a new timetable for the withdrawal of syria 's forces from lebanon lebanese christian lawmakers to arab mediators at talks in saudi arabia .
give two years to pull back to eastern lebanon , starting from the time increase political power for moslems beirut 's legislature a plan currently under study damascus .
threatened to combine to swamp the texas-louisiana coast with the highest tides of the year hurricane jerry .
was ordered to evacuate thousands of residents of low-lying areas as headed north the storm in the gulf of mexico with 80 mph winds .
said formed an association to oppose miami beach financier victor posner 's control of the restaurant chain they a group of arby 's franchisees .
is the decision the latest move in an escalating battle between the franchisees and mr. posner that began in august .
at the time , offered more than $ 200 million a group called r.b. partners ltd. , consisting of eight of arby 's largest franchisees , to buy arby 's inc. , which is part of dwg corp .
is dwg a holding company controlled by mr. posner .
one week later , was fired leonard h. roberts , president and chief executive officer of arby 's , in a dispute with mr. posner .
friday , announced the formation of an association -- called a.p. association inc. -- `` to preserve the integrity of the arby 's system '' 42 franchisees .
said `` have concluded that is continued control of arby 's by victor posner totally unacceptable to us , because is it extremely likely to cause irreparable damage to the arby 's system we the franchisees , owners or operators of 1,000 of the 1,900 franchised arby 's in the u.s. , : .
support all efforts to remove victor posner from control of arby 's inc. and the arby 's system we '' .
said would consider withholding royalty payments and initiating a class-action lawsuit seeking court approval for the withholdings it , among other things , the group .
in florida , responded `` do n't think should disrupt a winning system any individual or group or illegally interfere with existing contractual relationships for their own self-serving motives we renee mottram , a senior vice president at dwg , : .
show that still persist inflation , september 's steep rise in producer prices and contributed the pessimism over interest rates caused by the new price data to the stock market 's plunge friday .
after falling for three consecutive months , shot up 0.9 % the producer price index for finished goods last month , reported the labor department friday , as jumped energy prices after tumbling through the summer .
although did n't trigger the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average , the report , which was released before opened the stock market , said did play a role it in the market 's decline analysts .
immediately viewed the price data , the grimmest inflation news in months , analysts as evidence that was the federal reserve unlikely to allow interest rates to fall as had hoped many investors .
further fueling the belief that was pressures in the economy sufficient to keep the fed from easing credit , reported that grew 0.5 % retail sales in september , to $ 145.21 billion the commerce department friday .
came that rise on top of a 0.7 % gain in august , and suggested there is still healthy consumer demand in the economy .
said `` think weakened the belief that there was going to be an imminent easing of monetary policy , the friday report , combined with the actions of the fed , i '' robert dederick , chief economist at northern trust co. in chicago .
but was economists divided over the extent of the inflation threat signaled by the new numbers .
said `` is the overall 0.9 % increase serious in itself , but is that excluding food and energy , still increased the producer price index by 0.7 % , what is even worse '' gordon richards , an economist at the national association of manufacturers .
but blamed rising energy prices and the annual autumn increase in car prices sung won sohn , chief economist at norwest corp. in minneapolis , for most of the september jump .
said `` would say i is this not bad news ; is this a blip , '' he .
`` is not really out of line the core rate '' .
all year , have skewed the producer price index , which measure changes in the prices receive producers for goods energy prices .
unquestionably have fallen back from its torrid pace last winter , when sent a steep run-up in world oil prices surging the index at double-digit annual rates inflation .
then plummeted causing the index to decline for three consecutive months energy prices through the summer , .
said overall , have climbed the index at a 5.1 % compound annual rate since the start of the year , the labor department .
moreover , may have ended this year 's good inflation news last month , when zoomed up 6.5 % energy prices after plunging 7.3 % in august .
expect oil prices to remain relatively stable leaving the future pace of inflation uncertain in the months ahead , some analysts .
had expected that would lead the climb in oil prices last month to a substantial rise in the producer price index , analysts but was the 0.9 % climb higher than anticipated most .
said `` think is going to continue for a few months , the resurgence -lcb- in inflation -rcb- i '' john mueller , chief economist at bell mueller cannon , a washington economic forecasting firm .
predicted will moderate that inflation next year , saying that is credit conditions fairly tight world-wide he .
but said that `` is last month 's rise n't as bad an omen '' as suggest the 0.9 % figure dirk van dongen , president of the national association of wholesaler-distributors , .
explained `` if examine carefully , the data you is concentrated the increase in energy and motor vehicle prices , rather than being a broad-based advance in the prices of consumer and industrial goods , '' he .
jumped 3.8 % passenger car prices in september , after climbing 0.5 % in august and declining in the late spring and summer .
said was the september increase a one-time event , coming as introduced their 1990 models dealers many analysts .
although was adjusted all the price data for normal seasonal fluctuations , rose car prices beyond the customary autumn increase .
rose a hefty 1.1 % prices for capital equipment in september , while fell 1.1 % prices for home electronic equipment .
declined 0.6 % , food prices after climbing 0.3 % in august .
meanwhile , showed that rose 0.8 % car sales in september to $ 32.82 billion the retail sales report .
said but could have come at least part of the increase from higher prices , analysts .
rose 1.7 % sales at general merchandise stores after declining 0.6 % in august , while fell 1.8 % sales of building materials after rising 1.7 % .
grew 0.4 % producer prices for intermediate goods in september , after dropping for three consecutive months .
jumped 1.1 % prices for crude goods , an array of raw materials , after declining 1.9 % in august and edging up 0.2 % in july .
said expect to report a loss of at least $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter it cityfed financial corp. .
in the year-earlier period , had net income of $ 485,000 , but no per-share earnings cityfed .
said stem the loss from several factors cityfed 's president and chief executive officer , john atherton , .
said rose nonperforming assets to slightly more than $ 700 million from $ 516 million between june and september he .
consisted approximately 85 % of the total of nonperforming commercial real estate assets .
accordingly , estimated that will provide between $ 85 million and $ 110 million it for credit losses in the third quarter cityfed .
added that may be required significant additional loan-loss provisions by federal regulators as part of the current annual examination of city federal savings bank , cityfed 's primary subsidiary , based in somerset , n.j cityfed .
operate 105 banking offices in new jersey and florida city federal .
said will also mark its portfolio of high-yield corporate bonds cityfed to market as a result of federal legislation requiring that divest themselves savings institutions of such bonds mr. atherton .
said cityfed , will result that action , in a charge against third-quarter results of approximately $ 30 million .
also said expect to shed its remaining mortgage loan origination operations outside its principal markets in new jersey and florida it and , as a result , is taking a charge for discontinued operations cityfed .
said mr. atherton , will result all these actions , in a loss of $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter .
added however `` depending on the resolution of certain accounting issues relating to mortgages servicing and the outcome of the annual examination of city federal currently in progress with respect to the appropriate level of loan loss reserves , could significantly exceed this range the total loss for the quarter he , : .
said ordered it to suspend dividend payments on its two classes of preferred stock , federal thrift regulators indicating that have heightened regulators ' concerns about the troubled institution centrust savings bank .
in a statement , said cited the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent losses '' in its junk-bond portfolio the regulators in ordering the suspension of the dividends miami-based centrust .
also ordered centrust to stop buying back the preferred stock regulators .
criticized the federal office of thrift supervision , which issued the directive , david l. paul , chairman and chief executive officer , saying was it `` inappropriate '' and based on `` insufficient '' reasons .
said will try to get regulators to reverse the decision the thrift he .
is the suspension of a preferred stock dividend a serious step that signal that have deep concerns about an institution 's health regulators .
in march , labeled centrust a `` troubled institution , '' regulators largely because of its big junk-bond holdings and its operating losses .
in the same month , ordered the institution to stop paying common stock dividends until was its operations on track the office of thrift supervision .
for the nine months ended june 30 , had a net loss of $ 21.3 million , centrust compared with year-earlier net income of $ 52.8 million .
hold one of the largest junk-bond portfolios of any thrift in the nation centrust , which is florida 's largest thrift , .
since april , have pared its high-yield bond holdings it to about $ 890 million from $ 1.35 billion .
said are only about $ 150 million of the current holdings tradeable securities registered with the securities and exchange commission mr. paul .
said he , is the remainder , commercial loan participations , or private placements , that is n't filed with the sec and do n't have a ready market .
have been hounding centrust the office of thrift supervision to provide current market values for its holdings , but have said ca n't easily obtain such values it because of the relative illiquidity of the bonds and lack of a ready market centrust .
have become increasingly antsy about centrust 's and other thrifts ' junk-bond holdings regulators in light of the recent federal thrift bailout legislation and the recent deep decline in the junk-bond market .
require thrifts to divest themselves of junk bonds in the new , somber regulatory climate the legislation .
in american stock exchange composite trading friday , closed down 12.5 cents centrust common shares at $ 3 , .
in a statement friday , challenged the regulators ' decision , mr. paul saying `` have been substantially offset the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent '' junk-bond losses by gains in other activities of the bank '' .
also said have been set aside substantial reserves for possible losses from the junk bonds he .
in the third quarter , for instance , added $ 22.5 million centrust to its general reserves .
said should instead move ahead the regulators with approving centrust 's request to sell 63 of its 71 branches to great western bank , a unit of great western financial corp. based in beverly hills , calif mr. paul .
is the branch sale the centerpiece of centrust 's strategy to transform itself from a high-flying institution that relied heavily on securities trading for profits , into a traditional s&l according to mr. paul .
had expected a decision on the proposed transaction , which was announced in july , most analysts and thrift executives long before now .
interpret the delay many as an indication that is regulators skeptical about the proposal .
can be sold branches and deposits at a premium in the event take over an institution federal regulators .
however , tout the branch sale , centrust , saying would bring in $ 150 million it and reduce the thrift 's assets to $ 6.7 billion from $ 9 billion .
said would give positive tangible capital of $ 82 million , or about 1.2 % of assets , the sale it from a negative $ 33 million as of sept. 30 , thus bringing centrust close to regulatory standards it .
said would also reduce the company 's large amount of good will the branch sale by about $ 180 million centrust .
however , say will make centrust more dependent than ever on brokered deposits and junk bonds the branch sale critics , .
mr. paul counters that intend to further pare the size of centrust by not renewing more than $ 1 billion of brokered certificates of deposit when come due they he .
is also working to unload its junk-bond portfolio by continuing to sell off the bonds , the thrift and plan to eventually place some of them in a separate affiliate , as required under the new thrift law it .
on a recent saturday night , in the midst of west germany 's most popular prime-time show , bet the host that could name any of 100 different cheeses she after just one nibble , while blindfolded a contestant .
won the bet the woman .
but perhaps even more remarkable , regularly win the top slot in the country 's tv ratings , the three-hour-show , `` wetten dass '' ( make a bet ) , sometimes drawing as many as 50 % of west german households .
as the 1992 economic integration approaches , have taken threatening to impose quotas against such pop invaders as `` dallas , '' `` miami vice '' and `` l.a. law '' europe 's cultural curators to the ramparts against american `` cultural imperialism , '' .
but seems every bit as cheesy as is trying what to keep out they much of what want to protect the europeans .
have come the most militant opposition to american tv imports from french television and movie producers , who have demanded quotas ensuring that be produced a full 60 % of europe 's tv shows in europe .
so far , have failed to win enough broad-based support to prevail the french .
suggest one reason why a glance through the television listings and a few twists of the european television dial .
while there is some popular action and drama series , boast the high culture and classy production values might expect one few .
is filled more european air time with low-budget game shows , variety hours , movies and talk shows , are many of which authorized knock-offs of their american counterparts .
have a belgian pretending to be italian a flemish game show as its host .
is one of italy 's favorite shows , `` fantastico , '' a tepid variety show , so popular that clamored to buy a chocolate product , `` cacao fantastico , '' was sung whose praises each week by dancing showgirls viewers -- though even did n't exist the product .
topping the cheese stunt , on another typical evening of fun on `` wetten dass , '' won a bet with the show 's host , thomas gottschalk , that could identify 300 german dialects he over the telephone a contestant .
also won a bet that could pile up $ 150 worth of quarters someone on a slanted coin a celebrity guest , u.s. ambassador to west germany richard burt , .
nonetheless paid the penalty agreeing to spend frying their combined weight in potato pancakes and selling a day with west german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher mr. burt as if had lost he , .
if seem this like pretty weak stuff around which to raise the protectionist barriers , may be it because need all the protection can get they these shows .
usually target only their own local audience , and often only a small portion of that european programs .
rarely make it mega-hits in germany or italy even to france or great britain , and almost never show up on u.s. screens .
have generally resulted attempts to produce `` pan-european '' programs in disappointment .
have been described one annual co-production , the three-hour-long `` eurovision song contest , '' featuring soft-rock songs from each of 20 european countries , as the world 's most boring tv show .
is another , `` jeux sans frontieres , '' where make fools performing pointless tasks , villagers from assorted european countries of themselves a hit in france .
flopped fast a u.s.-made imitation under the title `` almost anything goes '' .
make up a relatively small part of british air time the cream of the british crop , the literary dramas that is shown on u.s. public television as `` masterpiece theater , '' .
is most british programming more of an acquired taste .
there is `` one man and his dog , '' a herding contest among sheep dogs , for instance , .
riveting to the british also is hours of dart-throwing championships , even more hours of lawn bowling contests and still more hours of snooker marathons .
have had better , though still mixed , fortunes european drama .
focus the most popular such shows on narrow national concerns .
had a good run in france , which ended after was injured the female lead in a real-life auto accident a french knock-off of `` dallas , '' called `` chateauvallon '' and set in a french vineyard , .
is `` schwarzwaldklinik , '' ( black forest clinic ) , a kind of german `` st . elsewhere '' set in a health spa , popular in germany , and has spread into france .
is italy 's most popular series a drama called `` la piovra , '' or `` the octopus , '' which chronicle the fight of an idealistic young investigator in palermo against the mafia .
was it front-page news in italy earlier this year when was gunned down the fictional inspector in the series .
was spain 's most popular mini-series this year `` juncal , '' the story of an aging bullfighter .
say `` is pretty well established the trend now that is local programs the most popular , with american programs second , '' brian wenham , a former director of programs for the british broadcasting corp .
`` given a choice , will watch a home-produced show everybody '' .
thus , have begun the recent crusade to produce more worthy shows of its own , programs with broader appeal europe .
concede `` have basically got to start from scratch , to train writers and producers to make shows will want that to see , other people we '' colin young , head of britain 's national film theatre school .
while contend that is advertising the bane of television , some in the u.s. believe that is to blame for the european tv industry 's sluggish development its absence here many .
until recently , controlled most of the air time national governments in europe and allowed little or no advertising .
since was guaranteed production costs , it did n't matter that could n't be sold abroad a program or put into syndication , as is most american programs .
but was spent either , not much money a situation that encouraged cheap-to-make talk and game shows , while discouraging expensive-to-produce dramas on the shows , .
now , however , is coming commercial channels to most european countries , and at the same time , is spreading rapidly satellite and cable technology .
just last week , authorized two commercial channels greece for the first time ; earlier began to allow commercial television alongside its state channels spain .
is the result a new and huge appetite for programming .
offer what must be a baffling cultural mix to most of its audience sky channel , a british-based venture of australian-american press tycoon rupert murdoch , .
offer programs obviously made cheaply available from its boss 's other ventures the financially struggling station .
in a madrid hotel room recently , caught the end of a badly acted series about a fishing boat on australia 's great barrier reef , a viewer only to be urged `` to stay tuned for the further adventures of skippy the kangaroo '' by the british announcer .
contributed lisa grishaw-mueller in bonn , laura colby in milan , tim carrington in london and carlta vitzhum in madrid to this article .
said is nearing an agreement to merge their guided-missile divisions , they greatly expanding collaboration between the two defense contractors british aerospace plc and france 's thomson-csf s.a. .
would have combined annual sales of at least # 1.4 billion ( $ 2.17 billion ) the 50-50 joint venture , which may be dubbed eurodynamics , and would be among the world 's largest missile makers .
after two years of talks , is plans for the venture sufficiently advanced for to seek french and british government clearance the companies .
hope the companies for a final agreement by year-end .
would strengthen the rapidly growing ties between the two companies , the venture and help make them a leading force in european defense contracting .
in recent months , have reshaped the once-balkanized world of european arms manufacture a string of cross-border mergers and joint ventures .
already , collaborate british aerospace and french government-controlled thomson-csf on a british missile contract and on an air-traffic control radar system .
just last week announced may make a joint bid to buy ferranti international signal plc , a smaller british defense contractor rocked by alleged accounting fraud at a u.s. unit they they .
is stirring controversy the sudden romance of british aerospace and thomson-csf -- traditionally bitter competitors for middle east and third world weapons contracts -- in western europe 's defense industry .
most threatened would be their respective national rivals , including matra s.a. in france and britain 's general electric co. plc by closer british aerospace-thomson ties .
but is sitting quietly by as join forces their competitors neither matra nor gec -- unrelated to stamford , conn.-based general electric co. -- .
yesterday , confirmed that may join the ferranti fight , his company as part of a possible consortium that would bid against british aerospace and thomson-csf a source close to gec .
include matra , britain 's dowty group plc , west germany 's daimler-benz ag , and france 's dassault group companies with which have had talks about a possible joint ferranti bid gec .
indicated but it may be weeks before decide whether to bid , gec and its potential partners the source .
plan first to study ferranti 's financial accounts , which recently said included # 215 million in fictitious contracts at a u.s. unit , international signal & control group , with which merged ferranti last year auditors gec .
also , might be blocked any gec bid by british antitrust regulators ; is ferranti gec 's main competitor on several key defense-electronics contracts , and may heighten british defense ministry worries about concentration in the country 's defense industry its purchase by gec .
however , would diminish gec 's direct role in ferranti a consortium bid , and might consequently appease ministry officials .
appeared unperturbed by the prospect of a fight with gec for ferranti a british aerospace spokeswoman : said `` is competition the name of the game , '' she .
insist is it n't interested in ferranti at least one potential gec partner , matra , .
said `` have nothing to say about this affair , which do n't concern us , we '' a matra official sunday .
said the british aerospace spokeswoman , is the missile venture , a needed response to the `` new environment '' in defense contracting .
for both thomson and british aerospace , have come earnings in their home markets under pressure from increasingly tight-fisted defense ministries ; and have been hurt middle east sales , a traditional mainstay for both companies ' exports , by five years of weak oil prices .
is the venture 's importance for thomson great .
feel depend the future of its defense business on building cooperation with other europeans thomson .
is consolidating the european defense industry ; for instance , recently joined gec west germany 's siemens ag in a takeover of britain 's plessey co. , and agreed to buy messerschmitt-boelkow blohm g.m.b . h . daimler-benz
in missiles , is already overshadowed thomson by british aerospace and by its home rival , france 's aerospatiale s.a. ; to better compete , say thomson officials , need a partnership they .
to justify 50-50 ownership of the planned venture , would make a cash payment thomson to british aerospace .
said is annual revenue of british aerospace 's missile business about # 950 million , a thomson spokesman .
include its 17-year-old family of rapier surface-to-air missiles british aerospace 's chief missile products .
with about half british aerospace 's annual revenue , include the crotale surface-to-air missile family thomson missile products , .
said will delay a proposed two-step , 830 million canadian-dollar ( us$ 705.6 million ) expansion of its system it because is shrinking canada 's output of crude oil interprovincial pipe line co. .
said indicate that will total about 1.64 million barrels a day 8 % lower than a previous estimate canadian oil output by 1991 , revised industry forecasts interprovincial , canada 's biggest oil pipeline operator and a major transporter of crude to the u.s. , .
averaged about 1.69 million barrels a day canadian crude production during 1989 's first half , about 1 % below the 1988 level .
said `` is dropping the capability of existing fields to deliver oil , '' and is oil exploration activity also down dramatically , as shift their emphasis many producers to natural gas , ronald watkins , vice president for government and industry relations with interprovincial 's parent , interhome energy inc .
said is volume on interprovincial 's system down about 2 % since january and is expected to fall further , making expansion unnecessary until perhaps the mid-1990s mr. watkins .
said `` there has been a swing of the pendulum back to the gas side , '' he .
say is the outlook for natural gas better than it is for oil , many of canada 's oil and gas producers and have shifted accordingly their exploration and development budgets .
said is down 30 % from a year ago , due to the increasing focus on gas exploration , the number of active drilling rigs in canada and is `` down more than that , '' the number of completed oil wells robert feick , manager of crude oil with calgary 's independent petroleum association of canada , an industry group .
said is the main reason for the production decline shrinking output of light crude from mature , conventional fields in western canada mr. watkins .
transport about 75 % of all crude produced in western canada , interprovincial and consist almost 60 % of interprovincial 's total volume of light crude .
said total about 600,000 barrels a day , or about 9.1 % of net u.s. crude imports , canada 's current oil exports to the u.s. john lichtblau , president of the new york-based petroleum industry research foundation .
rank canada that as the fourth-largest source of imported crude , behind saudi arabia , nigeria and mexico .
said will help intensify u.s. reliance on oil from overseas , particularly the middle east canada 's declining crude output , combined with the fast-shrinking output of u.s. crude , mr. lichtblau .
`` be it very much a growing concern .
'' said but when is something inevitable , learn to live with it , you he .
stressed that by itself wo n't increase however , u.s. dependence on offshore crude , the delay of interprovincial 's proposed expansion since is limited canadian imports in any case by canada 's falling output mr. lichtblau .
under terms of its proposed two-step expansion , which would have required regulatory approval , intended to add 200,000 barrels a day of additional capacity to its system , beginning with a modest expansion by 1991 interprovincial .
currently have a capacity of 1.55 million barrels a day the system .
expect to report that dropped more than 50 % third-quarter earnings from the previous quarter as a result of reduced sales volume and increased costs inland steel industries inc. .
in the second quarter , had net income of $ 45.3 million or $ 1.25 a share , the steelmaker including a pretax charge of $ 17 million related to the settlement of a suit , on sales of $ 1.11 billion .
said reduced shipments normal seasonal softness and lost orders caused by prolonged labor talks by 200,000 tons in the latest quarter , compared with the second quarter the company .
at the same time , was hurt the integrated-steel business by continued increases in materials costs and repair and maintenance expenses , as well as higher labor costs under its new contract .
was hurt the service-center business by reduced margins and start-up costs associated with its joseph t. ryerson & son unit .
said is beginning to see some shipping-rate improvements in both the intergrated-steel and steel-service-center segments , which should result in improved results for the fourth quarter it the company .
said will be announced its third-quarter results later this week inland .
in the year-earlier third quarter , when was the industry in the midst of a boom , had net of $ 61 million , or $ 1.70 a share , the company on sales of $ 1.02 billion .
in july , stunned wall street the company with the prediction that growth in the personal computer business overall would be only 10 % in 1990 , a modest increase when compared with the sizzling expansion of years past .
-- taking this as a sign that was a broad industry slump in the offing -- reacted investors by selling the company 's stock , which lost $ 3.25 that day to close at $ 52 in national over-the-counter trading .
but was all of three months ago that .
last week , said expect revenue for its first quarter ended sept. 30 to increase 34 % it microsoft .
caused the company 's stock to surge $ 6.50 to close at $ 75.50 a share the announcement .
is microsoft 's surprising strength one example of the difficulty facing investors looking for reassurances about the financial health of the computer firms .
said `` be it hard to know what to expect at this point , '' peter rogers , an analyst at robertson stephens & co .
`` defy characterization the industry '' .
to illustrate , said that of the 14 computer-related firms follow he , will report earnings below last year 's results , half for their most recent quarter and half above those results mr. rogers .
among those companies expected to have a down quarter is hewlett-packard co. , amdahl corp. and sun microsystems inc. , generally solid performers in the past .
also is expected to report disappointing results international business machines corp. .
meanwhile , is expected to show improved earnings for the period ended sept apple computer inc. , .
come another contradictory message from businessland inc. , a computer retailer .
in july , reported that had resulted booming sales of new personal computers from apple and ibm in more than doubling net income for its fourth quarter ended june 30 to $ 7.4 million , or 23 cents a share the company .
this month , however , warned investors that had n't met expectations results for its first quarter ended sept. 30 businessland .
said expect earnings of 14 to 17 cents a share , down from 25 cents a share in the year-earlier period it the company .
while confuse the earnings picture , say is the major forces expected to shape the industry in the coming year clearer observers .
will continue to war over standards companies .
in computer publishing , is hurting adobe systems inc. , which sell software that control the image produced by printers and displays a battle over typefaces .
until recently , had a lock on the market for image software , adobe but last month rebelled apple , adobe 's biggest customer , and microsoft .
now is collaborating the two firms on an alternative to adobe 's approach , and say is they likely to carry along with them ibm , the biggest seller of personal computers , analysts .
however , appear strong the short-term outlook for adobe 's business , .
is beginning to ship a new software program that 's being heralded as a boon for owners of low-end printers sold by apple the company .
is aimed the program at improving the quality of printed material .
said have been receiving 1,000 calls a day about the product the mountain view , calif. , company since was demonstrated several weeks ago it at a computer publishing conference john warnock , adobe 's chief executive officer , .
meanwhile , spell trouble for software firms generally competition between various operating systems , which control the basic functions of a computer , .
said `` create uncertainty it and usually slow down sales , '' russ crabs , an analyst at soundview financial group .
said probably is this behind the expected weak performance of aldus corp. , maker of a widely used computer publishing program mr. crabs .
expect aldus to report earnings of 21 cents a share on revenues of $ 19.5 million for its third quarter , compared with earnings of 30 cents a share on revenue of 20.4 million in the year-earlier period he .
could n't be reached aldus officials for comment .
on the other hand , is expected to grow increasingly irrelevant the battle of the bus .
is a bus the data highway within a computer .
is backing one type of bus called microchannel , ibm while have chosen another method the nine other leading computer makers , including h-p and compaq computer corp. , .
said `` do n't care users about the bus , '' daniel benton , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co .
said he for instance , use four different buses apple 's family of macintosh computers , `` and '' seem to mind no one .
will grow the gap between winners and laggards .
in personal computers , is expected to tighten their hold on their business apple , compaq and ibm .
at the same time , will continue to lose ground second-tier firms .
even may leave altogether the personal computer business some lagging competitors .
for instance , is considered a candidate to sell its troubled operation wyse technology , .
said `` have done well establishing a distribution business , wyse but have n't delivered products that sell , they '' kimball brown , an analyst at prudential-bache securities .
estimate will report a loss of 12 cents a share for its quarter ended sept wyse , is whose terminals business strong , mr. brown .
will continue to eat away at the business of more traditional computer firms personal-computer makers .
is expected to increasingly take on functions carried out by more expensive minicomputers and mainframes ever-more powerful desk-top computers , designed with one or more microprocessors as their `` brains , '' .
said `` is really being obsoleted the guys that make traditional hardware by microprocessor-based machines , '' mr. benton .
as a result of this trend , is scrambling to counterattack with microprocessor-based systems of their own longtime powerhouses h-p , ibm and digital equipment corp. .
but will have to act quickly they .
expect compaq to unveil a family of high-end personal computers later this year that are powerful enough to serve as the hub for communications within large networks of desk-top machines mr. benton .
also have targeted this `` server '' market a raft of new computer companies .
end population drain for midwestern states
is making a comeback iowa .
so is indiana , ohio and michigan .
is the population of all four states on the upswing , according to new census bureau estimates , following declines throughout the early 1980s .
to be sure , is the gains , rather small .
say for instance , saw grow its population by 11,000 people , or 0.4 % , between 1987 and 1988 , iowa , the census bureau .
still , is even that modest increase good news for a state that had n't grown at all since 1981 .
between 1987 and 1988 , was north dakota the only state in the midwest to lose population , a loss of 4,000 people .
have been holding its own the northeast in the population race .
have grown seven of nine states including new york , which lost 4 % of its population during the 1970s each year since 1980 , .
and although suffered earlier in the decade , slight declines pennsylvania and massachusetts is growing again they .
at the same time , have had their own population turnaround several states in the south and west .
is now losing population seven states that grew in the early 1980s -- west virginia , mississippi , louisiana , oklahoma , montana , wyoming and alaska .
overall , though , still outpace the northeast and midwest , the south and west and ensure that will continue the pattern fast-growing states like florida and california .
but have clearly started narrowing the growth gap between the sun belt and other regions .
thanks to modern medicine , is growing together old more couples .
show that was living up from 59 % in 1970 64 % of people aged 65 to 74 with a spouse in 1988 , a new census bureau study of the noninstitutionalized population .
do n't mean however be they less likely to live alone , this .
have remained that share at about 24 % since 1970 .
in 1988 , lived down from 15 % in 1970 10 % of those aged 65 to 74 with relatives other than spouses , .
as get even older , people become widowed many .
but even among those aged 75 and older , rose slightly , the share living with a spouse to 40 % in 1988 from 38 % in 1970 .
lived down from 26 % in 1970 only 17 % of those aged 75 and older with relatives other than spouses in 1988 , .
have increased the likelihood of living alone beyond the age of 75 to 40 % from 32 % .
is remaining longer independent more people presumably because is they better off physically and financially .
count most careers for the well-to-do
place personal success and money many affluent people above family .
said strongly felt the need to be successful in their jobs , they two-thirds of respondents while said strongly felt the need to spend more time with their families they fewer than half .
being successful in careers and spending the money make they are top priorities for this group .
unlike most studies of the affluent market , excluded the super-rich this survey .
was average household income for the sample $ 194,000 , and was reported average net assets as $ 775,000 .
was to learn about one of today 's fastest-growing income groups , the upper-middle class the goal .
although represent only 2 % of the population , they control nearly one-third of discretionary income they .
across the board , value quality , these consumers buy what like just they rather than what need they , and appreciate products that are distinctive .
despite their considerable incomes and assets , do n't feel financially secure , 40 % of the respondents in the study and do n't feel that have made it they one-fourth .
do n't even feel is they financially well off twenty percent .
do n't feel be they more able than others about 40 % .
while feel some guilt about being affluent , twothirds give $ 2,500 or more only 25 % to charity each year .
attend regularly religious services thirty-five percent ; at the same time , feel that in life sometimes have to compromise one 's principles one 60 % .
have more than doubled the number of women and minorities who hold jobs in top management in the nation 's largest banks since 1978 .
say that make up 47 % of officials and managers in the top 50 banks , up from 33 % in 1978 women the american bankers association .
have risen the share of minorities in those positions to 16 % from 12 % ... .
grew faster than inflation per-capita personal income in the u.s. last year , according to the bureau of economic analysis .
was the amount of income divvied up for each man , woman and child $ 16,489 in 1988 , up 6.6 % from $ 15,472 in 1987 .
ranged per capita personal income from $ 11,116 in mississippi to $ 23,059 in connecticut ... .
there is up 2 % from 1988 , 13.1 million students in college this fall , the national center for education statistics estimates .
is about 54 % women , and is 44 % part-time students .
's got trouble this small dallas suburb .
trouble with a capital t and rhyme that with p and stand that for pool .
more than 30 years ago , warned the citizens of river city , iowa , prof. harold hill , the con man in meredith willson 's `` the music man , '' against the game .
now have barred the town 's fanciest hotel , the grand kempinski , kindred spirits on addison 's town council from installing three free pool tables in its new lounge .
said was they worried about setting a precedent that would permit pool halls along addison 's main street mayor lynn spruill and two members of the council .
and warned that `` lead alcohol to betting , which lead to fights '' the mayor , in an admonition that bear a rhythmic resemblance to prof. hill 's , .
is the council 's action yet another blow to a sport that its fans claim has been maligned unjustly for years .
say `` obviously be they not in touch with what 's going on , '' tom manske , vice president of the national pocket billiards association .
is pool hot in new york and chicago , insist he , where is adding tables `` upscale , suit-and-tie places '' .
with today 's tougher drunk driving laws , add he , `` do n't want to just sit around and drink people '' .
besides , seem unlikely rowdy behavior at the grand kempinski , where average $ 200 a night rooms and go the cheap mixed drinks for $ 3.50 a pop .
at the lounge , wo n't admit patrons in jeans , t-shirts or tennis shoes manager elizabeth dyer .
but did n't buy those arguments a majority of the addison council .
introducing pool , argued councilwoman riley reinker , would be `` dangerous .
would open a can of worms it '' .
is addison no stranger to cans of worms , either .
after committed suicide its previous mayor last year , disclosed that regularly voted town officials on their own projects , gave special favors to developer friends and dipped into the town 's coffers for trips and retreats an investigation .
embarrassed town officials , the revelations although argued that was the problems n't as severe as suggested the media they .
now come the pool flap .
say `` think there be some people worried about something pretty ridiculous , i '' councilman john nolan .
`` thought all was taken care this of in ` the music man i .
was the only thing could praise robert goldberg about cbs 's new show `` island son '' ( leisure & arts , sept. 25 ) the local color ; unfortunately have done their homework neither he nor the producers of the show .
dress tucking in a hawaiian shirt and rolling up its long sleeves richard chamberlain as a `` mainland haole , '' .
and is the local expression for brother `` brah , '' not `` bruddah . ''
and if even would wear flowers a nurse in her hair while on duty , if was she engaged would know to wear them behind her left , not right , ear she .
sorry , do not even have the one redeeming quality of genuine local color the show .
or so must seem it to jackie mason , the veteran jewish comedian appearing in a new abc sitcom airing on tuesday nights ( 9:30-10 p.m. edt ) .
not only is mr. mason the star of `` chicken soup , '' be he also the inheritor of a comedic tradition dating back to `` duck soup , '' and be he currently a man in hot water .
in neutral language , here , is the gist of mr. mason 's remarks , quoted first in the village voice while was he a paid spokesman for the rudolph giuliani mayoral campaign , and then in newsweek after parted company he and the campaign .
said that feel guilty toward blacks , many jewish voters so support uncritically black candidates they mr. mason .
said that feel bitter many black voters about racial discrimination , so too , support uncritically black candidates they , he .
said that have contributed more jews to black causes over the years than vice versa he .
of course , did not use neutral language mr. mason .
as a practitioner of ethnic humor from the old days on the borscht belt , live television and the nightclub circuit , instinctively reached mr. mason for the vernacular .
said was jews `` sick with complexes '' he ; and called david dinkins , mr. giuliani 's black opponent , `` a fancy shvartze with a mustache '' he .
if had used less derogatory language mr. mason to articulate his amateur analysis of the voting behavior of his fellow new yorkers , would the water be quite so hot ?
because probably would , have bothered to distinguish between the substance of his comments and the fact that used insulting language he it few or none of the people upset by mr. mason 's remarks .
in addition , have implied that is his type of ethnic humor itself a form of racism some of mr. mason 's critics .
for example , said that is mr. mason `` like a dinosaur the new york state counsel for the naacp .
is fast leaving the place where is stuck he people '' .
fail to distinguish between the type of ethnic humor that aim at disparaging another group , such as `` polish jokes '' ; and the type that is double-edged , aiming inward as well as outward these critics .
typically is the latter the humor of the underdog , and was perfected it by both blacks and jews on the minstrel and vaudeville stage as a means of mocking their white and gentile audiences along with themselves .
in the hands of a zealot like lenny bruce , could cut both the self and the audience this double-edged blade to ribbons .
but wielded by a pro like jackie mason , is it a constructive form of mischief .
because despite all the media prattle about not mixing comedy and politics , is they similar in one respect : can serve both as mechanisms for easing tensions and facilitating the co-existence of groups in conflict .
be that why be it dangerous to have on college campuses and elsewhere , taboo all critical mention of group differences well-intentioned thought police , .
as wrote elizabeth kristol in the new york times just before the mason donnybrook , `` perhaps would not boil over intolerance with such intensity if was allowed to simmer honest differences '' .
is if still exist group conflicts ( as undeniably do they ) , and if is mr. mason 's type of ethnic humor passe , then do have what other means we for letting off steam ? the question ,
do n't say the tv sitcom , because happen to be a genre in its desperate need to attract everybody and offend nobody , resembles more than it does comedy politics that , that .
is it true that do allow group differences to simmer the best sitcoms : yuppies vs. blue-collar bostonians in `` cheers '' ; children vs. adults in `` the cosby show '' .
but is these not the differences that make headlines .
in `` chicken soup , '' play jackie , a jewish bachelor courting maddie ( lynn redgrave ) , an irish widow and mother of three , against the wishes of his mother ( rita karin ) and her brother michael ( brandon maggart ) mr. mason .
it 's worth noting that is both disapproving relatives immigrants .
at least , both speak they with strong accents , as do jackie and maddie .
it could n't be more obvious that is being made `` chicken soup '' from an old recipe .
and a safe one -- imagine if was the romance in question between an orthodox jew and a member of the nation of islam .
back in the 1920s , made the theme of courtship between the assimilated offspring of jewish and irish immigrants so popular that lost a plagiarism suit its author , anne nichols , on the grounds that have entered the public domain the plot the play and movie versions of `` abie 's irish rose '' .
and have remained there , it as evidenced by its reappearance in a 1972 cbs sitcom called `` bridget loves bernie , '' was that led it to the real-life marriage of meredith baxter and david birney whose sole distinction .
clearly , is not whether will boil over , the pot but whether will simmer it at all the question with `` chicken soup '' .
is part of the problem the tendency of all sitcoms , ever since the didactic days of norman lear , to preach about social issues .
to some extent , emerge this tendency whenever try to enlighten us about ethnic stereotypes by reversing them the show .
for instance , dislike jackie michael not because be he a shrewd jewish businessman , but because quit his well-paying job as a salesman he in order to become a social worker .
even more problematic is the incompatibility between sitcom preachiness and mr. mason 's comic persona .
occur the best moments in the show at the beginning and the end ( and occasionally in the middle ) , when slip mr. mason into his standup mode and starts meting out that old-fashioned jewish mischief to other people as well as to himself .
but too often , lack spark these routines because like all sitcoms , is this sitcom , timid about confronting mr. mason 's stock in trade - ethnic differences .
be not suggesting that start putting together episodes about topics like the catholic-jewish dispute over the carmelite convent at auschwitz the producers i .
like racial tensions in new york city , will have to cool down , not heat up , that issue , before can simmer it .
but be suggesting that stop requiring mr. mason to interrupt his classic shtik with some line about `` caring for other people '' that would sound shmaltzy on the lips of miss america they i .
have right up through friday a 60-year history of calm , the official white house reaction to a plunge in stock prices .
said that `` do n't signal any fundamental change in the condition of the economy the stock-market decline '' treasury secretary nicholas brady in a statement friday .
added he , `` remain well-balanced `` the economy , '' and is the outlook for continued moderate growth '' .
here be what said ronald reagan after the 1987 crash : `` remain sound the underlying economy .
there is nothing wrong with the economy ... is up all the indices '' .
after the 1929 crash , said `` ... is the fundamental business of the country on a sound and prosperous basis herbert hoover : .
was elected president and chief executive officer of this maker of magnetic recording heads for disk drives james robinson , 57 years old , .
will continue charles j. lawson jr. , 68 , who had been acting chief executive since june 14 , as chairman .
resigned the former president and chief executive , eric w. markrud , in june .
still leave open the possibility of enacting a gains tax reduction this year the senate 's decision to approve a bare-bones deficit-reduction bill without a capital-gains tax cut .
late friday night , voted 87-7 to approve an estimated $ 13.5 billion measure that had been stripped of hundreds of provisions that would have widened , rather than narrowed , the federal budget deficit the senate .
drastically streamlined the bill lawmakers to blunt criticism that was it bloated with special-interest tax breaks and spending increases .
said `` be putting back a deficit-reduction bill we in the category of being a deficit-reduction bill , '' senate budget committee chairman james sasser ( d. , tenn . ) .
but said that would soon be moving that could carry some of the measures that had been cast aside , including a capital-gains tax cut other bills through congress senate supporters of the trimmer legislation .
in addition , include a capital-gains provision the companion deficit-reduction bill already passed by the house .
is house-senate negotiations likely to begin at midweek and last for a while .
said `` can predict exactly what will happen on the house side , no one '' senate minority leader robert dole ( r. , kan . ) .
but , added he , `` believe will work together to get capital-gains reform this year republicans and democrats i '' .
told reporters that would n't push to keep the capital-gains cut in the final version of the bill the administration white house budget director richard darman yesterday .
said `` do n't need this we as a way to get capital gains , '' he .
said `` if 's that the signal that comes from the white house , that will help a great deal '' house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) in an interview , .
was the senate 's decision a setback for president bush and will make approval of a capital-gains tax cut less certain this year .
is playing hardball opponents of the cut .
said was he `` confident '' that would n't include a capital-gains tax cut any house-senate agreement on the deficit-reduction legislation senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) .
and said there is n't any `` plans to produce another tax bill that could carry a gains tax cut this year '' a senior aide to the house ways and means committee , where originate tax legislation , .
is one obvious place to attach a capital-gains tax cut , and perhaps other popular items stripped from the deficit-reduction bill , the legislation to raise the federal borrowing limit .
must be enacted such legislation by the end of the month .
was pared back the senate bill in an attempt to speed deficit-reduction through congress .
because have n't been completed the legislation , have to enact across-the-board spending cuts mandated by the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law president bush until midnight tonight .
hope that will pressure the house to agree to the streamlined bill the need to avoid those cuts senators .
appear reluctant to join the senators the house .
is whether is house republicans willing to acquiesce to their senate colleagues ' decision to drop many pet provisions a key .
`` although be encouraged i by the senate action , '' said chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill . ) of the house ways and means committee , `` is it uncertain whether can be achieved a clean bill in the upcoming conference with the senate . ''
is what think president bush another big question hovering over the debate .
have been resisting a stripped-down bill without a guaranteed vote on his capital-gains tax cut he .
but saw no way to overcome a procedural hurdle and garner the 60 votes needed to win the capital-gains issue on the floor , republican senators so went ahead with the streamlined bill they .
was stripped the senate bill of many popular , though revenue-losing , provisions , is included a number of which in the house-passed bill .
include a child-care initiative and extensions of soon-to-expire tax breaks for low-income housing and research-and-development expenditures these .
also missing is the house 's repeal of a law , called section 89 , that compel companies to give comparable health benefits to top paid executives rank-and-file workers from the senate bill .
was one high-profile provision that was originally in the senate bill but was cut out because lost money it the proposal by chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) of the senate finance committee to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts .
said hope will consider soon that measure the senate he mr. bentsen .
to the delight of some doctors , dropped a plan passed by the finance committee that would have overhauled the entire physician-reimbursement system under medicare the bill .
to the detriment of many low-income people , also was stricken efforts to boost medicaid funding , especially in rural areas , .
asked why was giving up so much , senators said `` be looking we like idiots new mexico sen. pete domenici , the ranking republican on the senate budget committee , , .
had just gone too far things '' .
said that required sacrifice by every senator the move sen. dole .
worked it , said others , because there was no exceptions : was stricken all revenue-losing provisions .
also dropped a plan by its finance committee that would have increased the income threshold beyond which have reduced their social security benefits senior citizens the senate .
in addition , dropped a plan to make permanent a 3 % excise tax on long-distance telephone calls the bill .
no longer include a plan that would have repealed what remains of the completed-contract method of accounting , which is used to reduce their tax burden by military contractors it .
also drop a provision that would have permitted corporations to use excess pension funds to pay health benefits for current retirees it .
also stricken was a fivefold increase in the maximum occupational safety and health administration penalties , which would have raised $ 65 million in fiscal 1990 .
was excised a provision that would have made the social security administration an independent agency .
was the approval of the senate bill especially sweet for sen. mitchell , who had proposed the streamlining .
have been strained mr. mitchell 's relations with budget director darman , who pushed for to be added a capital-gains cut to the measure , since chose to bypass the maine democrat and deal with other lawmakers mr. darman earlier this year during a dispute over drug funding in the fiscal 1989 supplemental spending bill .
contain $ 5.3 billion in tax increases in fiscal 1990 , and $ 26 billion over five years the deficit reduction bill .
the revenue-raising provisions , which affect mostly corporations , would :
-- require mutual funds to include dividends paid to them on the date that is declared the dividends rather than received , in their taxable income effective the day after is enacted the tax bill .
repeal a 50 % exclusion given to banks on the interest from loans used to acquire securities for an esop , the measure if own less than 30 % of the employer 's stock the esop .
also include spending cuts and increases in federal fees the measure .
would impose a brief freeze the plan on physician fees next year .
is a similar provision in the house version .
-- authority for to raise $ 239 million the federal aviation administration by charging fees for commercial airline-landing rights at new york 's laguardia and john f. kennedy international airports , o'hare international airport in chicago and national airport in washington .
contributed john e. yang to this article .
in response to your overly optimistic , outdated piece on how long last unemployment ( people patterns , sept. 20 ) : i am in the communications field , above entry level .
was laid off i in august 1988 , and after a thorough and exhausting job search , was hired in august 1989 .
ran out my unemployment insurance before found a job i ; found cutbacks and layoffs i in many companies .
is the statistics quoted by the `` new '' census bureau report ( garnered from 1984 to 1986 ) out of date , certainly as an average for the northeast , and possibly for the rest of the country .
think was that there seemed to be an underlying attitude to tell your readers is all well -- do n't worry if 're getting laid off you , and if 're you unemployed , be it a seller 's market what bothered most me about the piece i .
need a serious reality check your paper .
is bull hn information systems inc. a u.s. majority-owned unit of cie. des machines bull .
in friday 's edition , was misstated the name of the unit .
said reduced its rating on $ 165 million of subordinated debt of this beverly hills , calif. , thrift , it citing turmoil in the market for low-grade , high-yield securities moody 's investors service .
said reduced its rating on the thrift 's subordinated debt it to b-2 from ba-2 and will keep the debt under review for possible further downgrade the agency .
is columbia savings a major holder of so-called junk bonds .
require that divest themselves all thrifts of such speculative securities over a period of years new federal legislation .
was columbia savings officials n't available for comment on the downgrade .
said downgraded its rating it to b-2 from ba-3 on less than $ 20 million of this thrift 's senior subordinated notes moody 's investors service inc. .
said was franklin 's `` troubled diversification record in the securities business '' one reason for the downgrade , citing the troubles at its l.f. rothschild subsidiary and the possible sale of other subsidiaries the rating concern .
said `` perhaps had concern that was getting out of all these , we they '' franklin president duane h. hall .
`` think was it a little premature on their part i .
just when seemed safe to go back into stocks , it suffered another severe attack of nerves wall street .
do signal is coming another black monday this ?
or is this an extraordinary buying opportunity , like just eventually turned out to be oct. 19 , 1987 , ?
say `` i 'm the only one who said there would be an october massacre , all through late august and september , '' mr. granville , once a widely followed market guru and still a well-known newsletter writer .
say `` will tell you that is this time different from 1987 , everyone '' he .
`` well , in some ways is it different , but technically is it just the same .
right now be telling me to get the hell out and stay out they .
see no major support until 2200 i .
see a possibility of going to 2200 this month i '' .
say would n't even think he of buying until have hit 52-week lows at least 600 to 700 stocks mr. granville ; hit new lows about 100 stocks friday .
say he , `` have no idea what like look a massacre pattern `` most people , '' '' .
had warned a quantitative analyst with shearson lehman hutton inc. , clients to take out of the market their money before the 1987 crash ms. garzarelli .
say she , `` was friday 's big drop , not a crash .
was this an october massacre '' like those that occurred in 1978 and 1979 .
now , as in those two years , is her stock market indicators positive .
so think the damage will be short-lived and contained she .
say `` lasted those corrections one to four weeks and took 10%-12 % down , the market '' she .
`` is this exactly the same thing , as far as be concerned i . ''
thus , say she , if dropped the dow jones industrial average below 2450 , `` it would just be a fluke .
is to buy my advice '' .
as calculate it , she now sell the average stock for about 12.5 times companies ' earnings .
say could climb that ratio to 14.5 , given current interest rates , and still be within the range of `` fair value '' she .
say mark the start of a bear market , friday 's fall mr. davis , president of ned davis research inc .
but say expect no 1987-style crash he mr. davis , is widely respected whose views by money managers , .
say `` there was a unique combination in 1987 , '' he .
`` was margin debt at a record high .
there was tremendous public enthusiasm for stock mutual funds .
was the main thing portfolio insurance , '' a mechanical trading system intended to protect an investor against losses .
was a hundred billion dollars in stock subject '' to it .
in 1987 , contributed such selling to a snowball effect .
today could even be an up day , say mr. davis , if agree to refrain from program trading major brokerage firms .
over the next several months , though , say look bad things he .
say `` think will be heading down the market into november , i '' he .
`` will probably have a year-end rally , we and then go down again .
expect the downturn to carry down the dow jones industrial average to around 2000 sometime next year he .
say `` that would be a normal bear market , '' he .
`` guess that 's my forecast i '' .
`` do n't think is going the market through another october '87 i .
'' say do n't think be that the case at all , i mr. cooperman , a partner at goldman , sachs & co. and chairman of goldman sachs asset management .
see this mr. cooperman as a good time to pick up bargains , but do n't think there be any need to rush he .
`` expect the market to open weaker monday , i but then should find some stability it '' .
tick off several major differences between now and two years ago he .
unlike 1987 , have been falling interest rates this year .
and unlike 1987 , do n't appear to be in any danger of overheating the economy .
say but also mean `` is the outlook for corporate profits n't good , '' the economy 's slower growth this year he .
`` so be it a very mixed bag . ''
thus , conclude he , `` is this not a good environment to be fully invested in stocks '' .
`` if had come i into friday on margin or with very little cash in the portfolios , would not do any buying i .
but came we into friday with a conservative portfolio , so would look to do some modest buying '' on behalf of clients i .
be going to look for some of the better-known companies that got clocked '' friday we .
say `` is this the latest manifestation of the capacity of the financial community for recurrent insanity , '' mr. galbraith , an economist .
say `` see this i as a reaction to the whole junk bond explosion , '' he .
`` have lodged a lot of insecure securities the explosion of junk bonds and takeovers in the hands of investors and loaded the corporations that are the objects of takeovers or feared takeovers with huge amounts of debt rather than equity .
both have made investors uneasy and the corporations more vulnerable this '' .
nevertheless , say do n't appear likely a depression he .
say `` there is more resiliency in the economy at large than commonly suppose we , '' he .
`` take now more error it to have a major depression than back in the thirties -- as much may try the financial community and the government '' .
say that is n't totally gone takeovers new york money manager mario gabelli , an expert at spotting takeover candidates , .
say `` is still going to buy companies around the world , companies '' he .
is `` looking ford at jaguar , looking bellsouth at lin broadcasting '' examples .
do n't require junk bonds or big bank loans to finance them , these sorts of takeovers so mr. gabelli figures will continue they .
`` was up 35 % the market since took office , -lcb- president -rcb- bush '' say mr. gabelli , so was to be expected a correction .
think is another crash `` unlikely , '' he and say `` was nibbling he '' at selected stocks during friday 's plunge .
say `` is stocks that were thrown out just on an emotional basis a great opportunity -lcb- this -rcb- week for guys like me , '' he .
says `` seem it that is this the pin that have finally pricked the balloon , to me '' mr. rogers , a professor of finance at columbia university and former co-manager of one of the most successful hedge funds in history , quantum fund .
see `` economic problems , financial problems '' ahead he for the u.s. , with a fairly strong possibility of a recession .
say `` friday could n't sell dollars , you '' he .
`` would give a quote , dealers you but then refuse to make the trade '' .
wo n't decide what to do today mr. rogers until see how go the london and tokyo markets he .
recommend that sell takeover-related stocks , investors but hang on to some other stocks -- especially utilities , which often do well during periods of economic weakness he .
now claim to have predicted the 1987 crash many people .
actually did it queens newsletter writer francis x. curzio : stated that was the dow jones industrial average likely to decline about 500 points the following month he in writing in september 1987 .
say will depend a good deal what happen now on the federal reserve board mr. curzio .
if promptly cut the discount rate charge it on loans to banks , it say he , `` could quiet down things that '' .
if not , `` could go very soon we to 2200 '' .
say `` would still have to go down some additional amount stock prices before become positive on stocks , we '' mr. terrizzi , president and managing director of renaissance investment management inc. in cincinnati .
drew stiff criticism renaissance , which manages about $ 1.8 billion , from many clients earlier this year because pulled entirely it out of stocks at the beginning of the year and thus missed a strong rally .
is keeping its money renaissance entirely in cash equivalents , primarily u.s. treasury bills .
say `` probably is t-bills the right place to be , '' he .
1 . that was your sept. 28 editorial `` kangaroo committees '' factually inaccurate and deliberately misleading .
thought was your editorial factually accurate and deliberately elucidative i .
2 . that supported the rights of the witnesses to take the fifth amendment mr. lantos .
yes , did he .
as watched him i on c-span , heard speak those lovely words about the bill of rights , which quote he from the transcript of the hearings him i .
did repeat those nice platitudes he several times as an indication of his support for the constitution .
used about 56 words defending the witnesses ' constitutional rights he .
by my rough guess , unfortunately , used better than 5,000 words heaping scorn on the witnesses for exercising the fifth he .
sandwiched his praise of constitutional meat he between large loaves of bilious commentary .
as rightly pointed out , your editorial `` is currently being held up to scorn samuel pierce , former hud secretary , and lance wilson , mr. pierce 's former aide , for taking the fifth amendment .
'' certainly is that not the supposed `` distorted reading '' indicated by mr. lantos .
3 . that `` do not deal his committee with any possible criminal activity at hud .
fully realize is we not a court my colleagues and i ... etc '' .
by any `` reasonable '' man criterion , have tried a whole bunch of people mr. lantos and his colleagues and convicted .
apparently , is in their verdict .
right now be pursuing evidence they .
be that not a bad way to proceed , just somewhat different from standard american practice .
how was referred that practice to when was i in school ?
of course , doth mr. lantos protest that simply seek information his subcommittee for legislative change .
is everything say that mr. lantos in his letter partially true .
be he right about his subcommittee 's responsibilities when come it to obtaining information from prior hud officials .
but if is his explanation of motivation true , why is so oriented his investigation as to identify criminal activity ?
no , simply wo n't wash mr. lantos 's complaints .
4 . that defend `` the sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public that took place while was mr. pierce secretary of hud , '' the journal etc. and so forth .
no , to my mind , `` did not defend sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public trust the journal ... ''
defended appropriate constitutional safeguards and practical common sense it .
is the problem , which so rightly pointed out the journal in a number of articles , not the likes of mr. lantos , after all who is really a bit player on the stage , but the attempt by congress to enhance itself into a quasi-parliamentary/judicial body .
( of course , have also got a judiciary that seek the same objective we ) .
is the system the problem , not an individual member .
can always have slapped their hands individuals .
it 's when do n't occur such slapping that have got trouble we .
by any means do not defend hud management i .
but think is the kind of congressional investigation that has been pursued a far greater danger to american notions of liberty and freedom than could possibly generate any incompetency ( and , yes , maybe criminality ) within hud i .
was the last time saw a similar congressional hearing i when did his work `` tail '' gunner joe mccarthy .
disagree i with the statement by mr. lantos that should not draw an adverse inference one against former hud officials who assert their fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination in congressional hearings .
state that `` shall be compelled to be a witness against himself no person , in any criminal case , '' the fifth amendment in relevant part .
preclude the drawing of an adverse inference against a criminal defendant who choose not to testify this privilege against self-incrimination .
in a criminal case , thus , can not comment a prosecutor on a defendant 's failure to testify nor can be compelled to take the stand as a witness , thus forcing him `` to take the fifth '' the defendant .
however , have been limited to protect the defendant in criminal matters only the privilege , in accordance with its plain language .
have specifically recognized that `` do not preclude the inference the fifth amendment where is claimed the privilege by a party to a civil cause '' the supreme court and some states .
in a civil case , thus , may be called may be forced to testify or take the fifth , he a defendant as a witness , and may permit the drawing of an adverse inference against him in the civil matter his taking of the fifth .
may take the fifth he in a civil matter if only have a good faith and justifiable belief that may subject him his testimony to criminal prosecution he .
is not based allowing the defendant to take the fifth in a civil matter on a constitutional right to refuse to testify where harm him one 's testimony in the civil matter , but because could be unconstitutionally used the testimony in the civil matter against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution .
may order absent the risk of such prosecution , the defendant to testify a court .
when asserted the fifth mr. pierce in a noncriminal proceeding , after particularly presumably receiving extensive advice from legal counsel , thus , must conclude that held a good-faith , justifiable belief that could be used his testimony against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution he one .
have every right to draw the adverse inference and to concur with mr. pierce 's own belief that could help convict him of a crime his testimony the subcommittee , congress and the american public .
was it friday the 13th , and plummeted nearly 200 points the stock market .
or is justified triskaidekaphobia -- fear of the number 13 -- ?
in academia , have been set up a so-called friday the 13th effect and shot down by different professors .
found evidence that is spooked the market by friday the 13th robert kolb and ricardo rodriguez , professors of finance at the university of miami , .
but have since been shown to be jinxed by an unlucky choice of data their study , which spanned the 1962-85 period , .
in the '70s , took falls the market nine times in a row on friday the you-know-what .
but tend to be a plus , not a minus , for stocks , the date according to yale hirsch , a collector of stock market lore .
found that had higher than average returns -- higher even than fridays in general , which tend to be strong days for stock prices the 82 fridays the 13th in the 1940-1987 period another study .
on the only other friday the 13th this year , rose about four points the dow jones industrial average .
say was published tongue-in-cheek the original study , titled friday the 13th , part vii , professor kolb .
in a similar vein , add that could have played too , a part , the anniversary of the 1987 crash and saturday 's full moon in friday 's market activity he .
reminiscent of those during the 1987 crash -- that as plummeted stock prices and escalated trading activity , went unanswered some phone calls to market makers in over-the-counter stocks .
said `` could n't get dealers to answer their phones , we '' robert king , senior vice president of otc trading at robinson-humphrey co. in atlanta .
`` was it -lcb- like -rcb- the friday before black monday '' two years ago .
whether had any effect unanswered phone calls or not , sank far less than those on the new york and american exchanges nasdaq stocks .
nonetheless , suffered its biggest point decline of the year and its sixth worst ever , the nasdaq composite index diving 14.90 , or 3 % , to 467.29 .
occurred ten points of the drop during the last 45 minutes of trading .
by comparison , tumbled 5.8 % the new york stock exchange composite friday and fell 4 % the american stock exchange composite .
on oct. 16 , 1987 , fell 16.18 points , or 3.8 % , the nasdaq composite followed three days later by its devastating 46.12-point , or 11 % slide , .
friday totaled 167.7 million shares , nasdaq volume which was only the fifth busiest day so far this year .
was set the single-day record of 288 million shares on oct. 21 ,
said `` was there n't a lot of volume because was it just impossible to get moved stock , '' e.e. `` buzzy '' geduld , president of herzog , heine , geduld , a new york company that make markets in thousands of otc issues .
was mr. king of robinson-humphrey and others quick to add that believe stemmed the problem more from traders ' inability to handle the volume of calls , rather than a deliberate attempt to avoid making trades they .
is the subject a sore one for nasdaq and its market-making companies , which was widely criticized two years ago following complaints from investors who could n't reach their brokers or trade in the chaos of the crash .
declared `` was it the last hour of trading on a friday peter dapuzzo , head of retail equity trading at shearson lehman hutton , : .
there was too many phones ringing and too many things happening to expect market makers to be as efficient as robots .
was it n't intentional , was we all busy . ''
said `` was it just like two years ago james tarantino , head of otc trading at hambrecht & quist in san francisco , , .
was trying to do the same thing at the same time everybody '' .
said proudly that executed every order received it his company by the close of trading jeremiah mullins , the otc trading chief at dean witter reynolds in new york , .
but , added he , `` can only take one call you at a time '' .
keep supplies of stock market makers on hand to maintain orderly trading when occur imbalances .
when is selling so frenzied , fall steeply and fast prices .
faced with the possibility of heavy losses on the stocks in their inventories , two years ago , began dumping shares , exacerbating the slide in otc stock prices market makers themselves .
said on friday , was selling again , some market makers traders .
but , with sagging profits on wall street since the crash , have kept smaller share stockpiles companies on hand .
said fell some prices without taking place , trades as kept dropping the prices at which would buy shares they market makers mr. tarantino of hambrecht & quist .
said `` was hitting everyone else 's bid , everyone '' he .
while incurred losses otc companies on friday , so , said was the damage n't as bad as was it in 1987 trading officials .
`` two years ago was carrying huge inventories we and was that the big culprit .
'' said do n't know i of anyone carrying now , big inventories mr. king of robinson-humphrey .
said that actually made money piper jaffray on friday tony cecin , head of equity trading at piper , jaffray & hopwood in minneapolis , .
said helped that is his inventory a third smaller now than was two years ago , it it he .
said that despite the rush of selling , never considered the situation an `` emergency '' he joseph hardiman , president of the national association of securities dealers , which oversee the nasdaq computerized trading system , .
said `` was the pace of trading orderly , '' he .
`` worked beautifully , nasdaq 's small order execution system '' as did the automated system for larger trades , according to mr. hardiman .
nevertheless , undoubtedly will shake many investors ' confidence the shock of another steep plunge in stock prices .
in the past , thrived the otc market on a firm base of small-investor participation .
because have n't returned nasdaq 's trading volume to pre-crash levels , hope the damage wo n't be permanent traders and otc market officials .
but is they worried .
lamented `` was just starting to get back , the public 's confidence we '' mr. mullins of dean witter .
more troubling is the prospect that could permanently erode the base of small-investor support was struggling to rebuild in the wake of the october 1987 crash the otc market the overall collapse in stock prices .
say would allay investor fears some action from government policy makers mr. cecin of piper jaffray .
say wo n't take much more it `` to scare out of retail investors , the hell '' he .
on friday came big and small institutional investors , as well as individual investors and market makers the sellers from all corners of the otc market -- .
but said generally ranged the sell orders from 20,000 shares to 50,000 shares , compared with blocks of 500,000 shares or more two years ago grateful traders .
said nervously sold stock retail investors friday and never returned to bargain-hunt shearson 's mr. dapuzzo .
was institutional investors , which had been selling stock throughout last week to lock in handsome gains made through the third quarter , calmer .
said `` had a good amount of selling from institutions , but not as much panic , we '' mr. dapuzzo .
`` if could n't sell they , put back the shares some of them on the shelf '' .
in addition , said he , placed bids to buy some otc stocks was beaten down whose prices some bigger institutional investors .
in addition , said sent occasional `` waves computer-guided program selling of otc stocks in the russell index of 2000 small stocks and the standard & poor 's 500-stock index `` through the market mr. dapuzzo .
was hammered nasdaq 's biggest stocks .
tumbled 4.2 % , or 19.76 , the nasdaq 100 index of the largest nonfinancial issues , including the big otc technology issues , to 449.33 .
dropped 2 % , or 9.31 , the nasdaq financial index of giant insurance and banking stocks to 462.98 .
have only a handful of takeover-related stocks the otc market .
but fell sharply they .
for instance , have offered to buy lin broadcasting as well as metromedia 's new york city cellular telephone interests , and in a separate transaction , sell certain mccaw properties to contel cellular mccaw cellular communications , .
lost 8 % , or 3 1/2 , mccaw to 40 .
dropped 5 1/2 , or 5 % , lin broadcasting , to 107 1/2 .
was the turnover in both issues roughly normal .
on a day when did n't sit well negative takeover-related news with investors , said advised it that do n't plan to pursue its previously reported $ 27.50-a-share bid to buy the company it haas & partners commercial intertech , a maker of engineered metal parts , .
plummeted 6 commercial intertech to 26 .
also tumbled the issues of companies with ties to the junk bond market friday .
on the otc market , slid 2 first executive , a big buyer of the high-risk , high-yield issues , to 12 1/4 .
among other otc issues , dropped 2 1/8 intel , to 33 7/8 ; lost 1 1/8 laidlaw transportation to 19 1/2 ; was the american depositary receipts of jaguar off 1/4 to 10 1/4 ; slipped 2 1/4 mci communications to 43 1/2 ; fell 3 apple computer to 45 3/4 and dropped 2 1/4 nike to 66 3/4 .
is the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below a guide to general levels but do n't always represent actual transactions .
is the minimum unit $ 100,000 .
is these rate indications n't directly comparable ; vary widely lending practices by location .
said began scooping up stocks during friday 's market rout they pension funds , insurers and other behemoths of the investing world .
and plan to buy more today they .
rightly or wrongly , appear to be fighting the latest war by applying the lesson learned they in the october 1987 crash : pays off buying at the bottom many giant institutional investors .
to be sure , might put away their checkbooks big investors in a hurry if open sharply lower stocks today .
could still panic they and bail out of the market .
but indicate that wo n't abandon stocks they unless get far worse conditions their 1987 performance .
said `` last time , got rewarded we for going out and buying stocks when was the panic the worst , '' john w. rogers , president of chicago-based ariel capital management inc. , which manage $ 1.1 billion of stocks .
spent half his cash on hand mr. rogers for `` our favorite stocks that have fallen apart '' friday .
expect to invest the rest if weaken further the market he .
was n't daunted denver-based portfolio manager james craig when shaved $ 40 million friday 's rout from the value of the $ 752 million janus fund oversee he .
said `` waited to make sure had kicked through , all the program trades i '' he .
then jumped he into the market :
`` spent $ 30 million i in the last half-hour '' .
also opened their wallets other money managers .
said `` was buying i at the close ( friday ) and 'll be buying again i because know be getting good value , we i '' frederick a. moran , president of moran asset management inc. , greenwich , conn .
`` there is no justification on the fundamental level for this crash '' .
can decide to ride out market storms without jettisoning stock unlike mutual funds , which can be forced to sell stockholdings when rush to withdraw money , investors big investors such as pension funds and insurance companies .
most often , do just that , they because have proved to be the best-performing long-term investment , attracting about $ 1 trillion from pension funds alone stocks .
said `` if bought you after the crash , did very very well you off the bottom , '' stephen b. timbers , chief investment officer of chicago-based kemper financial services inc .
for one , added two years ago $ 1 billion the $ 56 billion california public employees retirement system , to its stock portfolio .
said `` taught institutional investors that have to be long-term holders , they and that ca n't react they to short-term events , good or bad , the last crash '' stephen l. nesbitt , senior vice president for the pension consultants wilshire associates in santa monica , calif .
`` regretted `` so '' it , those that pulled out ( of stocks ) '' said he , doubt 'll see any significant changes you in institutional portfolios as a result of friday 's decline i .
leave investors ahead more than 20 % , well above the annual average for stocks over several decades even friday 's slump .
said `` could go down 400 points you and still have a good year in the market , '' james d. awad , president of new york-based bmi capital corp .
however , worry that `` could go down 800 or 900 points the market in the next few days mr. awad , .
can happen it before can turn around you '' .
said discern many parallels with 1987 , including the emphasis on takeover stocks and the re-emergence of computerized program trading he he .
said he , `` is `` the only thing do n't have you , '' the ` portfolio insurance ' phenomenon overlaid on the rest . ''
have abandoned the portfolio insurance hedging technique , which is widely thought to have worsened the 1987 crash most institutional investors .
was designed not really insurance , to soften the blow of declining stock prices and generate an offsetting profit by selling waves of s&p futures contracts this tactic .
in its severest test , did n't work the $ 60 billion of portfolio insurance in effect in the 1987 crash , as disappeared stock buyers and became disconnected stock and futures prices .
said even without portfolio insurance , was market conditions grim friday , money managers .
said was besieged he by wall street firms friday asking him to take stock off their hands neil weisman , had converted 85 % of its $ 220 million investment pool whose new york-based chilmark capital partners to cash in recent months , .
said `` got calls from big block houses asking us if want to make bids on anything , we we '' mr. weisman , who , declined happy with his returns on investments chalked up earlier , the offers .
predict will appear to stabilize in the next few days stocks before declining again , trapping more investors mr. weisman .
said `` think it will be a rigor mortis rally , i '' he .
meanwhile , brought a reprieve for money managers had put them whose investment styles at odds with the market rally friday .
especially gleeful was the short sellers , who have been pounded by this year 's market climb .
sell borrowed shares , the shorts hoping to profit by replacing later them at a lower price .
is the nation 's largest short-selling operation feshbach brothers , palo alto , calif. , which said that had shown up to that point losses of 10 % for the year its short positions last may .
said `` be we ahead for the year because of friday , '' the firm 's kurt feshbach .
`` be not making a killing , we but had we a good day .
said have turned over evidence the agency in a criminal investigation concerning vitarine pharmaceuticals inc. to the u.s. attorney 's office in baltimore food and drug administration spokesman jeff nesbit .
have been charged neither vitarine nor any of the springfield gardens , n.y. , company 's officials or employees with any crimes .
won approval to market a version of a blood pressure medicine vitarine but acknowledged that substituted a smithkline beecham plc product it as its own in tests .
also said have asked bolar pharmaceutical co. to recall its urinary tract antibiotic at the retail level the fda mr. nesbit .
said but so far have n't complied the company with that request , the spokesman .
said only agreed to recall `` as far down as direct customers , mostly wholesalers , '' two strengths of its version of macrodantin bolar , the subject of a criminal investigation by the fda and the inspector general 's office of the health and human services department , mr. nesbit .
earlier began a voluntary recall of both its 100 milligram and 50 milligram versions of the drug bolar , of copiague , n.y. , .
have said presented evidence uncovered it it to the company indicating that substituted the brand-name product bolar for its own to gain government approval to sell generic versions of macrodantin the fda .
have denied that switched the brand-name product it for its own in such testing bolar .
plan to challenge the legality of a widely employed anti-takeover defense of companies in the netherlands the west german retailer asko deutsche kaufhaus ag .
could become a landmark in dutch corporate law the eventual court decision because the lawsuit plan to file asko would be the first to challenge the entire principle and practice of issuing voting preferred shares companies to management-controlled trusts to dilute voting power of common stockholders .
noted up to now have been challenged only specific aspects of these defenses , though unsuccessfully , asko 's dutch lawyers .
should uphold the validity of this type of defense , the courts will then ask the court to overturn such a vote-diluting maneuver recently deployed by koninklijke ahold nv asko .
say had n't reasonable grounds to issue preferred stock to a friendly trust and thus dilute the worth and voting power of asko and other shareholders the dutch-based international food retailer asko .
speaking through its dutch lawyers , also disclosed hold a 15 % stake in ahold it asko .
was previously thought held a 13.6 % stake that was accumulated since july asko it .
said is his company confident of its own position and the propriety of the preferred-share issue a spokesman for ahold .
termed asko 's legal actions he as `` unproductive '' to international cooperation among european retailers .
is chase manhattan bank chairman willard butcher a conservative banker and a loyal republican , but on friday morning had few kind words he for president bush 's economic policy-making .
said `` there is some very significant issues out there , such as the fiscal deficit , the trade deficit , our relations with japan , that have to be the subject of major initiatives , '' he in an interview .
`` 'd like to see that initiative , i and have n't i .
there is n't a big shot , an agenda '' .
a few hours later , dropped 190 points the stock market .
tried to finger each other for the blame , although doubt that was washington singly responsible for wall street 's woes many analysts politicians .
but make clear : wonder one thing some on wall street if is anyone in charge of economic policy mr. butcher 's comments .
-- by 11:59 p.m. tonight , must order $ 16 billion of automatic , across-the-board cuts in government spending to comply with the gramm-rudman budget law president bush .
is the cuts necessary because have failed to reach agreement on a deficit-cutting bill congress and the administration .
said `` simply do n't have strong leadership to try to reduce the deficit and make tough choices , we '' house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) yesterday on nbc news 's `` meet the press '' .
-- for the last two weeks , have been engaged the bush administration and the federal reserve in a semi-public battle over international economic policy .
have been trying to push lower the dollar the administration ; have been resisting the fed .
said `` is one of the things that continue to worry me this monetary warfare between the treasury department and the federal reserve board , '' lawrence kudlow , a bear , stearns & co. economist , on abc 's `` this week '' .
-- have sent out confusing signals about its response to a recent spate of airline takeovers the administration .
last month , forced northwest airlines to reduce a stake held by klm royal dutch airlines transportation secretary sam skinner .
but have since run he into opposition from the treasury and the white house over that decision .
and have kept mum on how might affect a bid for united airlines , which include a big stake by british airways plc his decision he .
say was uncertainty about washington 's anti-takeover policy one reason that fell through financing for the united airlines takeover -- the event that triggered the market drop some analysts .
in many ways , is the backdrop to friday 's stock decline eerily similar to that of october 1987 's 508-point crash .
then , as now , was the budget debate behind schedule and was automatic spending cuts within days of taking hold .
was locked the treasury in a battle over international economic policy , although at that time was it with west german officials rather than the federal reserve .
and was making markets nervous concern about official actions aimed at takeovers -- then by the tax-writing house ways and means committee rather than the transportation department -- .
brought the reagan administration and democratic lawmakers the 1987 crash to the table for the first budget summit , resulting in a two-year plan to reduce the deficit by more than $ 76 billion -- though even actually rose the deficit by nearly $ 12 billion during that period .
but , barring further drops in the market this week , do n't seem likely a similar outcome this year .
agree that by itself , is friday 's drop , n't enough to force back to the table both sides to try to reach a deficit-reduction agreement that would be more serious and more far-reaching than last spring 's gimmick-ridden plan , which still is n't fully implemented lawmakers and administration officials .
is that , as learned everyone in 1987 , can survive a one-day 508-point tumble the economy and the market one of the biggest reasons that is new talks n't likely to come about .
said `` thought everybody was looking we at a repetition of 1929 , that was looking we at a recession , '' rep. panetta yesterday in an interview .
`` did not happen that .
learned could survive it they without much problem they '' .
but privately agree administration officials with mr. panetta , who said `` is going to force the president and congress to take a much harder look at fiscal policy a precipitous drop this week '' .
said `` there is an underlying concern on the part of the american people -- and should be there - that have not gone far enough the administration in cutting this deficit and that congress has been unwilling to cut what asked us to cut , the administration '' senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) .
nevertheless , clearly will take more than friday 's 190-point decline it to overcome the bitter feelings that have developed between lawmakers and white house budget director richard darman over the capital-gains fight .
is hill democrats particularly angry over mr. bush 's claim that was the capital-gains cut part of april 's budget accord and his insistence on combining it with the deficit-reduction legislation .
said `` there is no prospect of any so-called grand compromise or deal next year because simply did n't live up the administration to this year 's deal , '' senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) yesterday on cbs news 's `` face the nation '' .
during last week 's maneuverings on the deficit-cutting bill and the capital-gains issue , there was signs that was senate republicans and the administration at odds .
at the very moment that was negotiating a deal to exclude capital gains from the deficit-reduction legislation , senate republicans told reporters that was it the president 's policy to include it white house spokesman marlin fitzwater .
when was reached to strip capital gains from the legislation , an agreement hailed it oregon sen. bob packwood , the ranking gop member of the tax-writing senate finance committee , .
asked if agreed the administration , curtly replied `` will have to speak for itself the adminstration '' he : .
could spur action on reconciling the house and senate versions of the deficit-reduction measure , a process that is n't expected to begin until tomorrow at the soonest friday 's market tumble .
expressed the hope that would follow the lead of the senate , which on friday agreed to drop a variety of spending measures and tax breaks that would have increased the fiscal 1990 deficit the house senate republicans .
said `` need a strong signal that be we serious about deficit reduction , the market and is the best way to do that for to strip their bill the house of representatives of similar provisions , '' sen. warren rudman ( r. , n.h . ) yesterday .
estimated that would cut the fiscal 1990 shortfall the house-passed deficit-reduction measure by $ 6.2 billion , almost half of the congressional budget office 's estimate of $ 11.0 billion the white house office of management and budget , determine whether is met the gramm-rudman targets , whose calculations .
said that omb 's figure would still be enough to avoid permanent across-the-board cuts , rep. panetta but added `` be getting here very close to the margins we '' : .
was no one in washington willing to take the blame for provoking friday 's drop in the stock market .
but was some players quick to seize the moment .
before had set the sun on friday , issued a statement attributing the drop in stock prices to the senate decision to postpone action on capital gains richard rahn , the supply-side chief economist of the u.s. chamber of commerce , .
said `` was spooked investors , who had been holding assets in anticipation of a more favorable time to sell , , '' he .
`` there have been many preposterous reasons advanced to support a capital-gains tax cut , '' said sen. mitchell during his television appearance , `` but suggest is that perhaps more than any of the others i .
is tentatively scheduled the following u.s. treasury , corporate and municipal offerings for sale this week , according to dow jones capital markets report :
matched their big institutional brethren small investors in anxiety over the weekend , but seemed to be taking a philosophical approach most and said was resigned they to riding out the latest storm in the stock market .
said `` be not losing faith in the market , i '' boston lawyer christopher sullivan as watched the market plunge he on a big screen in front of a brokerage firm .
but be he not so sure about everyone else .
predicted `` think on monday are going to panic and sell , the small ( investors ) i '' mr. sullivan , include amr corp. 's american airlines unit and several mutual funds whose investments .
`` and think is going to come in and buy institutions i ...
be going to hold on i .
if sell now , i 'll take a big loss i '' .
evinced an optimism that had been rewarded when did n't flee the market they in 1987 some .
said `` oh , bet it 'll be up 50 points on monday , i '' lucy crump , a 78-year-old retired housewife in lexington , ky .
said mrs. crump lost about one-third of its value her ashwood investment club 's portfolio following the black monday crash , `` but '' got discouraged no one , and gained back that we -- and more .
at the annual congress of the national association of investors corp. at the hyatt regency hotel in minneapolis , was the scene calm .
was attending some 500 investors representing investor clubs from around the u.s. when started to slide the market friday .
but said is planned no special bulletins or emergency meetings of the investors ' clubs robert showalter , an official of the association , .
said `` hope to take advantage of it , we '' john snyder , a member of a los angeles investors ' club .
have four stocks to buy if drop the prices to the level want he he in mind .
is reacting so calmly , however , not everyone and wonder many about the long-term implications of what is widely viewed as the cause of friday 's slide , reluctance by banks to provide financing for a buy-out of ual corp. , parent of united airlines .
said is the market drop one of `` a tremendous number of signs that is ending the leveraged take-out era marc perkins , a tampa , fla. , investment banker , .
there be no question that there be a general distaste for leverage among lenders .
'' believe however , that could be stabilized the market if step back california investor marvin davis in to the united bidding with an offer of $ 275 a share mr. perkins , .
say be she generally skittish about the stock market and the takeover activity that seem to fuel it sara albert , a 34-year-old dallas law student , .
`` have this feeling that be built it on sand , say she , that rise the market `` but '' there be no foundation to it i '' .
pulled out of the market most of their investments she and her husband after the 1987 crash , although still own some texaco stock she .
partly because of concern about the economy and because partly recently quit her job as a legal assistant she to go to school , `` think want to be a lot more liquid we i at this point '' .
wonder can stand how many more of these shocks the small investor others .
said `` all assumed was october '87 a one-time shot , we '' san francisco attorney david greenberg .
`` told the little guy we could only happen once it in a lifetime , come on back .
now be happening again it '' .
got out mr. greenberg just before the 1987 crash and , to his regret , never went back as even soared the market .
this time be he ready to buy in `` when wear off the panic '' .
still , add `` ca n't have happen very often this kind of thing we he : .
when get frightened , the little guy hurt badly the big guys .
ca n't survive merrill lynch without the little guy '' .
have tiptoed back small investors into the market following black monday , but mostly through mutual funds .
say discount brokerage customers `` have been in the market somewhat but not whole hog like was two years ago , they '' leslie quick jr. , chairman of the quick & reilly discount brokerage firm .
say schwab customers `` have been neutral to cautious recently about stocks '' hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles scwhab corp. , .
say is individual investors still angry about program trading , mr. quackenbush .
say will have to more closely control program trading `` to win back the confidence of the small investor '' government regulators avner arbel , a cornell university finance professor , .
but be it not only the stock market that has some small investors worried .
said alan helfman , general sales manager of a chrysler dealership in houston , have some joint stock investments , he and his mother but is the overall economy his chief worry .
said `` took a big bath these high rollers today , '' he in his showroom , which is within a few miles of the multi-million dollar homes of some of houston 's richest citizens .
`` and can tell you that is n't going to come in tomorrow and buy a chrysler tc by maserati a high roller i '' .
and , finally , there was the gloaters .
`` got out i in 1987 .
everything , '' said pascal antori , an akron , ohio , plumbing contractor who was visiting chicago and stopped by fidelity investments ' lasalle street office .
`` just stopped to see how much would have lost i i by '' .
would ever get back in mr. antori ?
when come it to money : once bitten , 2,000 times shy .
is the crowded field for notebook-sized computers about to become a lot more crowded .
is expected to put immediate heat on others in the market , especially zenith electronics corp. , the current market leader , and on a swarm of promising start-ups compaq computer corp. 's long-awaited entry today into the notebook field .
extend a trend toward downsizing in the personal computer market compaq 's series of notebooks .
already have produced called a notepad , a clipboard-sized computer one manufacturer and have introduced even smaller `` palmtops '' two others .
but is still considered novelties , those machines with keyboards could love only a munchkin and screens to match .
say analysts be they faster and carry more memory than anything else of their size on the market -- and be priced aggressively they at $ 2,400 to $ 5,000 .
comes all of this in a machine that weigh only six pounds and fit comfortably into most briefcases .
in recent months , all have introduced portables that weigh approximately the same and that are called perhaps misleadingly notebooks -- compaq 's competition , including zenith , toshiba corp. , tandy corp. and nec corp. .
noting that is most such machines about two inches thick , take exception one analyst , to the name .
say `` is this n't quite a notebook -- call it a phonebook , i '' he .
ca n't be said that of the $ 2,400 notepad computer introduced a few weeks ago by grid systems corp. , a unit of tandy .
instead of a keyboard , feature a writing surface , an electronic pen and the ability `` to read block printing '' it .
at 4 1/2 pounds , may be too ambitiously named it , but nevertheless open up the kind of marketing possibilities that make froth analysts it .
is n't far behind palmtops .
introduced two months ago in europe and in the u.s. in early september , weigh less than a pound , atari corp. 's portfolio , cost a mere $ 400 and run on three aa batteries , yet have the power to run some spreadsheets and word processing programs .
however , say is restricted its ability to run commonplace programs by a limited memory some critics , .
meanwhile , have introduced a much more sophisticated palmtop that can run lotus 1-2-3 and other sophisticated software programs , but cost five times as much poquet computer corp. , .
at stake is call what `` the holy grail of the computer industry '' mike swavely , compaq 's president of north america operations , -- the search for `` a real computer in a package so small can take everywhere it you '' .
is the market so new , know yet how big can be it nobody .
say `` have had trying to sell services to find out how big is it , me a lot of people i '' tom humphries , director of marketing for grid .
`` whether be it $ 5 billion or $ 3.5 billion , do n't matter it .
be it huge . ''
consider the growth of portables , which now comprise 12 % of all personal computer sales .
have become the fastest-growing personal computer segment , laptops -- generally anything under 15 pounds -- with doubling sales this year .
also have precluded use of the faster , more powerful microprocessors found in increasing numbers of desktop machines it .
also have limited screen displays size and weight considerations .
can get pretty petty the competitive sniping at times .
for example , criticize the atari portfolio a poquet spokesman , because require three batteries it while need only two the poquet .
is dismissed both palmtops by notebook makers , who argue that be they too small -- a problem also encountered poquet in focus groups , admit gerry purdy , director of marketing .
trying to avoid the `` gadget '' label , responded poquet , with the tag line , `` the poquet pc -- a very big computer '' .
despite the sniping , few question the inevitability of the move to small machines that do n't make compromises .
toward that end , say will take place the real battle between center-stage players like toshiba , zenith and now compaq experts .
is considered a direct threat to start-up firms like dynabook inc. , which introduced a computer that , like compaq 's , use an intel 286 microprocessor and have a hard disk drive in june compaq 's new machines .
but is the dynabook product twice as heavy and costs more than compaq 's .
also spell trouble compaq 's announcement for zenith , which last year had 28 % of the u.s. laptop market but recently agreed to sell its computer business to cie. des machines bull , the french government-owned computer maker .
will vote zenith holders in december on the proposed $ 635 million sale , a price that could slip because is pegged it to zenith 's share and sales .
is already taking aim compaq at zenith 's market share .
note pointedly that use an `` unconventional '' two-inch floppy disk , zenith 's $ 2,000 minisport whereas use the more common 3 1/2-inch disk compaq 's new machines rod canion , compaq 's president and chief executive officer , .
john p. frank , president of zenith data systems , simply shrugs off such criticism , noting that was 3 1/2-inch floppies also `` unconventional '' when first replaced five-inch disks they .
argue `` do n't look we at it as not being a standard , look we at it as a new standard , '' he .
do n't see that way analysts it .
say `` ca n't imagine that 'll talk you to anyone who wo n't tell you is this dynamite for compaq and a stopper for everyone else , i '' gene talsky , president of professional marketing management inc .
adds bill lempesis , senior industry analyst for dataquest , a high-technology market research firm : `` basically think that is these very hot products we .
is that they wo n't be able to make enough of them the problem is going to have compaq '' .
include the 3 1/2-inch floppy disk drive , a backlit screen that is only 1/4-inch thick and an internal expansion slot for a modem -- in other words , almost all the capabilities of a typical office machine compaq 's machines .
undoubtedly will follow others , but believe have at least a six-month lead on the competition compaq most analysts .
for example , feature the t-1000 , which is in the same weight class but is much slower and have less memory , and the t-1600 , which also use a 286 microprocessor , but which weigh almost twice as much and is three times the size toshiba 's line of portables , .
marketed in japan , may hit the u.s. a third model , by the end of the first quarter of 1990 , but by then , say analysts , will have established itself compaq as one of three major players .
say analysts , have been burned twice international business machines corp. , in trying to enter the laptop market and show no signs of trying to get anytime soon into notebooks .
received air force contracts to develop integrated circuits for use in space honeywell inc. and international business machines corp. .
totaled $ 69.7 million , honeywell 's contract and ibm 's $ 68.8 million .
received a $ 46.7 million air force contract for developing cable systems for the minuteman missile boeing co. .
received a $ 29 million air force contract for electronic-warfare training sets general dynamics corp. .
received an $ 18.1 million navy contract to upgrade aircraft electronics grumman corp. .
received an $ 11.8 million army contract for helicopter engines avco corp. .
said caused spain 's september consumer price index to shoot up 1.1 % from the previous month , pushing the annual rate of inflation to 6.8 % , sharp increases in the price of fresh produce the national institute of statistics friday .
is the monthly increase the highest recorded in the past four years .
have a base of 100 set in 1983 the index , which registered 156.8 at the end of september , and is n't seasonally adjusted .
have risen 5.9 % prices in the first nine months of the year , outstripping both the initial 3 % inflation goal set by the government of socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez and the second , revised goal of 5.8 % .
announced in september rose 3.3 % japan 's wholesale prices from a year earlier and was up 0.4 % from the previous month , the bank of japan friday .
stood the wholesale price index at 90.1 , compared with a 1985 base of 100 .
hit 52-week highs twenty-four new york stock exchange issues during friday 's trading , despite the dow jones industrial average 's 190.58-point plunge .
held up relatively better than other market sectors stocks of utilities during the sell-off .
and among the issues hitting new highs was detroit edison co. and niagara mohawk power corp .
included american telephone & telegraph co. , westinghouse electric corp. , exxon corp. and cigna corp. , the big insurer other major issues hitting highs .
of course , hit new lows many more issues -- 93 -- .
included international business machines corp. , which during friday 's session traded below $ 100 a share for the first time since june 1984 these .
closed down $ 5.625 ibm at $ 102 , .
included navistar international corp. , union carbide corp. and bethlehem steel corp. , are included all of which in the industrial average other new lows .
meanwhile , braved the cascading market two initial public offerings in their maiden day of national over-the-counter trading friday .
closed up from its $ 15 offering price shares of rally 's inc. , an operator of fast-food restaurants , at $ 17 each , and closed up from its $ 12 offering price shares of employee benefit plans inc. , a health-care consultant , at $ 14.125 , .
said acquired 5 % of the shares in jaguar plc it ford motor co. .
said is being notified jaguar , the london stock exchange and the u.s. securities and exchange commission of the transactions , the company .
advised ford that would n't raise any objection to the acquisition of as much as 15 % of jaguar shares it the u.s. federal trade commission last week .
disclosed that want to buy as much as 15 % of the british luxury-car maker , the maximum allowed under current united kingdom government restrictions it the no. 2 auto maker last month .
said had discussed the possibility of a joint venture with jaguar it before began buying shares ford general motors corp. .
said still is talking it with jaguar about acquiring a minority interest gm .
investors who bought stock with borrowed money -- is that , `` on margin '' -- may be more worried than most following friday 's market drop .
be that because can require them to sell some shares or put up more cash to enhance the collateral backing their loans their brokers .
in october 1987 , was thought to have contributed to the downward spiral of the stock market these margin calls .
typically , occur a margin call when fall the price of a stock below 75 % of its original value .
if do n't put up the extra cash to satisfy the call , the investor may begin liquidating the securities the brokerage firm .
but said do n't expect major problems as a result of margin calls they some big brokerage firms .
said margin calls since friday `` have been higher than usual , but reasonable , '' a spokesman for shearson lehman hutton inc. .
said `` do n't expect margin calls -lcb- -rcb- to be as big a factor as in 1987 merrill lynch & co. officials '' because is buying stock fewer individual investors on margin , a spokesman .
said did n't expect any immediate problems with margin calls for schwab customers he hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles schwab corp. , the san francisco-based discount brokerage firm , .
said he had increased margin requirements schwab `` so '' have more of a cushion customers .
added `` learned a lesson we in 1987 about volatility he : .
following rival hertz corp. 's lead , said is backing out of frequent-flier programs with three airlines it avis inc. , .
said wo n't renew contracts with nwa inc. 's northwest airlines unit , pan am corp. 's pan american world airways unit and midway airlines it at the end of this year the garden city , n.y. , car-rental company .
but remain involved in programs with amr corp. 's american airlines unit and delta air lines it .
put avis 's annual cost of all five programs industry estimates at between $ 8 million and $ 14 million .
would n't specify the costs a spokesman for avis but said the three airlines being dropped account for `` far less than half of the total '' .
both said had no plans to follow suit they budget rent a car corp. , of chicago , and national car rental systems inc. , of minneapolis , .
in fact , indicated saw some benefit to staying involved in these programs , in which earn frequent-flier miles renters and can get car-rental discounts fliers it budget .
said `` can not see how can not benefit budget 's programs , this news by hertz and avis i '' bob wilson , budget 's vice president , marketing planning .
is northwest and midway two of the five airlines with which have agreements budget .
also participate along with four other airlines , including delta and usair group inc. 's usair unit national in the northwest frequent-flier program .
a month ago , said that would drop its marketing agreements it at year end with delta , america west and texas air corp. 's continental airlines and eastern airlines , and that also would be ended sometime after dec. 31 pacts with american airlines , ual inc 's united airlines and usair ... hertz , of park ridge , n.j. , .
at the time , said amounted its annual fees to those airlines to $ 20 million and that topped $ 15 million the value of redeemed awards hertz .
however , doubt was the numbers that high analysts and competitors , .
said is its frequent-flier costs `` substantially '' below avis 's level budget .
said `` have significantly diminished their value the proliferation and costs attached to -lcb- frequent-flier programs -rcb- '' robert d. cardillo , avis vice president of marketing , , .
said this year has been difficult for both hertz and avis , charles finnie , car-rental industry analyst at alex . brown & sons .
said `` have been looking to get down , their costs they and is this a fairly sensible way to do it , '' he .
is cutting down `` the pat sajak show '' cbs inc. to one hour from its current 90 minutes .
insisted was the move n't a setback for the program , which is the network 's first entry into the late-night talk show format since 1972 cbs .
said `` have every intention of making this the best possible show i and having run it one hour is the best way to it , '' rod perth , who was named vice president of late night entertainment in august .
`` will raise the energy level of the show this '' .
will continue to program action-adventure shows to follow the sajak hour cbs .
but will extend its four-hour `` nightwatch '' cbs news by 30 minutes and begin at 1:30 a.m .
despite a promising start , have slipped badly finishing far below `` tonight '' on nbc , a unit of general electric co. , and `` nightline '' on abc-tv , a unit of capital cities/abc inc the show , in the weekly ratings as compiled by a.c. nielsen co. , .
further fractioning is the late-night audience the addition of the `` arsenio hall show , '' syndicated by paramount communications inc .
preparing to fight with international business machines corp. for a piece of the mainframe business , said expect to post higher revenue and earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended sept. 30 it tandem computers inc. , .
said expect to report revenue of about $ 450 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share it tandem .
said reflect `` a continued improvement in our u.s. business , '' the results , which are in line with analysts ' estimates , james treybig , tandem 's chief executive officer .
in the year-earlier period , reported net income of $ 30.1 million , or 31 cents a share , on revenue of $ 383.9 million tandem .
expect to report the full results for the quarter next week tandem .
have predicted that will report revenue of $ 430 million to $ 460 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share the cupertino , calif. , company analysts .
commenting on the results for the quarter , said came the strength of the company 's domestic business as `` a surprise '' to him , noting that exceeded our plan sales `` in every region of the u.s. '' mr. treybig .
said was helped the company 's u.s. performance by `` a record quarter for new customers , '' he .
make `` fault-tolerant '' computers -- machines with built-in backup systems -- that run stock exchanges , networks of automatic tellers and other complex computer systems tandem .
tomorrow is scheduled to announce its most powerful computer ever , which for the first time will bring it into direct competition with makers of mainframe computers the company .
is called cyclone tandem 's new high-end computer .
is prices for the machine , which can come in various configurations , $ 2 million to $ 10 million .
expect the new computer to wrest away from ibm , the longtime leader in mainframes a hefty slice of business analysts .
said `` believe could siphon perhaps two to three billion dollars they from ibm over the next few years , we '' george weiss , an analyst at the gartner group .
will spur tandem 's growth that .
said `` i 'd be disappointed if grew the company by less than 20 % next year , '' john levinson , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co .
is expected to respond to tandem 's cyclone by discounting its own mainframes , ibm which say are roughly three times the price of a comparable system from tandem analysts .
said `` obviously can give immediately , bigger discounts ibm to users '' mr. weiss .
but mr. treybig questions whether that will be enough to stop tandem 's first mainframe from taking on some of the functions that previously sought large organizations from big blue 's machines .
said `` is the answer n't price reductions , but new systems , '' he .
nevertheless , face a variety of challenges , the biggest being that generally view the company 's computers customers as complementary to ibm 's mainframes tandem .
is even mr. treybig reluctant to abandon this notion , insisting that is tandem 's new machines n't replacements for ibm 's mainframes .
said `` be we after a little bigger niche , '' he .
may turn out to be good news for the economy the stock market 's swoon .
in one wild hour of trading , managed to accomplish have been trying unsuccessfully , what to do , the bush administration for weeks the market .
is forcing the federal reserve to ease its grip on credit it and took out of a previously irrepressible dollar the wind it .
could reinvigorate american business -- indeed , the entire economy the resulting decline in interest rates and the value of the dollar .
may sound strangely optimistic this .
after all , until a few years ago , was viewed the stock market as a barometer of the national economy .
when went down , it by all tradition , followed the economy .
have changed that , partly because the two years following the worst stock-market plunge in history have been reasonably comfortable .
say was the 1987 crash `` a false alarm however view it , you '' university of chicago economist victor zarnowitz .
seem increasingly disconnected from the rest of the nation the market .
ca n't be traced its spasms to fundamental business conditions , nor do appear to presage major shifts in the economy they .
said `` have a life of its own , the market today '' john akers , chairman of international business machines corp. , saturday .
`` there be nothing rational about this kind of action '' .
of course , will be threatened the health of the economy if continue to dive the market this week .
do reduce consumer wealth , sharply falling stock prices damage business confidence and discourage the foreign investors upon whom now rely the u.s. for financial sustenance .
was battered the financial-services industry by the 1987 crash .
what 's more , although is the stock market far less overvalued today than two years ago , is the u.s. economy weaker .
is growth slower .
is profits softer .
is debt burdens heavier .
but if do n't continue to plummet , the stock market may well dominate the beneficial effects of lower interest rates and a lower dollar .
is now poised to pour money into the economy if needed to soothe the markets the fed , which until friday had been resisting moves to ease credit , .
may protest that do n't necessarily mean a fundamental change in their interest-rate policies this fed officials .
but suggest is the fed likely to bring down short-term interest rates in its effort to calm markets the experience of the 1987 crash .
anticipating the fed 's move , lowered down from 8.820 % the day before a key interest rate known as the federal funds rate money traders to 8.625 % late friday , .
is tiny movements in the rate , which is what charge each other banks for overnight loans , usually among the few visible tracks that leave the fed on the monetary markets .
also began to decline the dollar friday as caused some investors to reassess their desire to invest in the u.s. the stock market 's plunge .
have been arguing that was out of whack with economic fundamentals , threatening to extinguish the export boom that have sustained manufacturers for several years the dollar 's strength treasury officials for months .
have now apparently convinced foreign investors that was the treasury right about the overpriced dollar the market drop .
would be welcomed a modest drop in the dollar -- only a modest one , mind you -- by the u.s. .
was that n't the case in 1987 , when was the dollar so weak that seriously worried that might collapse producing panic among foreign investors and diminishing the flow of foreign capital to the u.s. it , some economists and government officials .
is another big difference between 1987 and 1989 n't so comforting .
in the third quarter of 1987 , spurted the economy at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 5.3 % .
is that grew a much more sluggish 2.3 % it in the third quarter of 1989 , which ended two weeks ago the consensus among economists .
say `` is happening the plunge in stock prices at a time when have already slowed down , the economy '' economist lawrence chimerine of wefa group , a bala cynwyd , pa. , forecasting company .
`` is gone a lot of pent-up demand '' .
recall did drop consumer spending in the months following black monday 1987 -- `` but only slightly and for a short period of time , '' mr. zarnowitz , a longtime student of business cycles .
`` was offset that by strength elsewhere .
-lcb- -rcb- was the effects much less severe and less prolonged than had feared some or expected .
'' today , fret he , exports and business investment spending may be insufficient to pick up the slack if sink stock prices this week and if retrench consumers in reaction .
what 's more , have n't abated the corporate borrowing binge in the past two years .
note `` have had two more years of significant accumulation of debt we ... just at the time when is being squeezed earnings , '' mr. chimerine .
the more rely a company on borrowed money , the greater its sensitivity to an economic slowdown .
can withstand an unanticipated storm a company with a strong balance sheet ; may end up a highly leveraged company in bankruptcy court .
of course , know very well that the fed , -- hence its readiness to pump credit into the economy this morning .
but , in the process , risk reigniting inflation the fed .
even before friday 's events , was arguing that the fed wo n't be able to live up to its tough words on eliminating inflation because of its responsibility to protect fragile financial markets , banks and highly leveraged corporations harvard university economist benjamin friedman .
reason is the biggest threat on the economic horizon right now n't recession , he ; be it an outbreak of uncontrolled inflation .
in the end , suggested the 1987 collapse , do n't move the economy in lockstep with stock prices .
do , however , depend the economy on the confidence of businesses , consumers and foreign investors .
do n't exactly inspire confidence a panic on wall street .
suggested that was consumer confidence high before friday surveys .
is a 190-point drop n't likely to make much of a dent ; multiply a few times over , though , that and it will .
if is the reactions of executives gathered saturday at hot springs , va. , for the business council meetings typical , was n't overly rattled business leaders by friday 's decline .
and if become a tad more cautious foreign investors -- well , suggest that can stand it the u.s. the dollar 's recent strength .
on the bottom line , is that we 've been through this before the most comforting fact for the economic outlook .
two years ago , was about the only point of comparison the 1929 crash and the subsequent depression .
had a receptive audience the doomsayers .
permit a more optimistic view the prosperity that followed black monday today .
at the very least , is taking comfort the establishment here from the nation 's success in handling the last go-around .
as observed sen. lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) yesterday , `` avoided a meltdown the fed last time .
is they more sophisticated this time .
is expected to report that eroded profits in the third quarter because of skidding prices in the commodity end of the business the chemical industry .
have seen sharp inventory cutting by buyers producers of commodity chemicals , the basic chemicals produced in huge volumes for other manufacturers , .
also will be reporting once the chief beneficiaries of the industry 's now fading boom , these producers against exceptionally strong performances in the 1988 third quarter .
say `` for some of these companies , this will be the first quarter with year-to-year negative comparisons , '' leonard bogner , a chemical industry analyst at prudential bache research .
is expected perhaps most prominent , to report that decreased profit in the latest quarter from a year earlier , if only by a shade dow chemical co. , which as of midyear had racked up eight consecutive record quarters , .
though have aggressively diversified dow into specialty chemicals and pharmaceuticals , still have a big stake in polyethylene , which is used in packaging and housewares the company .
is analysts ' third-quarter estimates for the midland , mich. , company between $ 3.20 a share and $ 3.30 a share , compared with $ 3.36 a year ago , when was profit $ 632 million on sales of $ 4.15 billion .
declined to comment on the estimates a dow spokeswoman .
at the investment firm of smith barney , harris upham & co. , is seen pulling down overall profit for 20 companies representative of the whole industry by 8 % to 10 % the commodity-chemical segment .
say `` will find the commodities off more than the others and the diversified companies about even or slightly better , you '' james wilbur , a smith barney analyst .
project that will report lower profit 10 of the 15 companies follow it first boston corp. .
still , is expected to report continuing gains , some industry giants largely because is so much of their business outside commodity chemicals .
is thought to have had steady profit growth in white pigments , fibers and polymers du pont co. .
moreover , is helped the wilmington , del. , company when weaken prices on the commodity chemicals buy it for its own production needs , such as ethylene .
is divided analysts over whether will report much of a gain in the latest quarter from its conoco inc. oil company du pont .
in the 1988 third quarter , earned $ 461 million , or $ 1.91 a share , the company on sales of $ 7.99 billion .
declined to comment du pont .
too , is expected to continue reporting higher profit , monsanto co. , though even was hurt its sales of crop chemicals in the latest quarter by drought in northern europe and the western u.s. .
is expected to report again that is narrowing losses in its g.d. searle & co. pharmaceutical business the st. louis-based company .
continued to operate in the red searle through the first half of the year , but have said expect searle to post a profit for all of 1989 it monsanto .
run most estimates for monsanto between $ 1.70 and $ 2 a share .
a year ago , posted third-quarter profit of $ 116 million , or $ 1.67 a share , on sales of $ 2.02 billion the company .
declined to comment monsanto .
but is caught the commodity-chemical producers on the downside of a pricing cycle .
by some accounts on wall street and in the industry , is the inventory reductions near an end , which may presage firmer demand .
but say could keep pressure growing production capacity on prices into the early 1990s doubters .
in the latest quarter , at least , is expected to fall sharply profit .
for himont inc. , say `` how far down is it , do n't know we , '' leslie ravitz at salomon brothers .
is the projections in the neighborhood of 50 cents a share to 75 cents , compared with a restated $ 1.65 a share a year earlier , when was profit $ 107.8 million on sales of $ 435.5 million .
face lower prices for its mainstay product , polypropylene , himont while go forward it with a heavy capital investment program to bolster its raw material supply and develop new uses for polypropylene , include the packaging and automobile industries whose markets .
is the company , based in wilmington , del. , 81%-owned by montedison s.p . a. , milan , which have an offer outstanding for the himont shares do n't already own it .
at quantum chemical corp. , new york , is the trouble lower prices for polyethylene , higher debt costs and the idling of an important plant due to an explosion .
hedge their estimates for quantum , some analysts because is n't known it when will book certain one-time charges the company .
but range the estimates from break-even to 35 cents a share .
in the 1988 third quarter , earned $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , quantum on sales of $ 724.4 million .
is expected to post profit of between $ 1 a share and $ 1.25 , compared with $ 1.56 a share a year earlier , when earned $ 213 million the company on sales of $ 2.11 billion another big polyethylene producer , union carbide corp. , .
all declined to comment himont , quantum and union carbide .
was priced the issue , which is puttable back to the company at par on oct. 15 , 1999 , at a spread of 50 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
rated single-a-1 by moody 's investors service inc. and single-a by standard & poor 's corp. , will be sold the non-callable issue through underwriters led by merrill lynch capital markets .
was priced the non-callable issue , which can be put back to the company in 1999 , at 99 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
rated baa-1 by moody 's and triple-b-plus by s&p , will be sold the issue through underwriters led by morgan stanley & co .
backed by freddie mac 8 1/2 % securities with a weighted average remaining term to maturity of 28.4 years , was priced the offering , series 102 , before the market 's afternoon surge .
among classes for which was details available , ranged yields from 8.78 % , or 75 basis points over two-year treasury securities , to 10.05 % , or 200 basis points over 10-year treasurys .
is backed the offering , series 101 , by freddie mac 9 1/2 % securities .
was pricing details n't immediately available .
collateralized the agency 's first strips issue , by freddie mac 8 % securities pooled into a single security called a giant , will be divided into interest-only and principal-only securities .
is being sold the collateral by a thrift institution .
will be repackaged the principal-only securities into a freddie mac remic , series 103 , that will have six classes by bt securities .
will be sold separately the interest-only securities by bt securities .
pay the principal the principal-only securities from the underlying freddie mac 8 % securities , while pay only interest the interest-only securities .
said was priced to yield 8.45 % , the principal-only securities at 58 1/4 freddie mac assuming an average life of eight years and a prepayment of 160 % of the psa model .
was priced to yield 10.72 % the interest-only securities at 35 1/2 .
there was no major eurobond or foreign bond offerings in europe friday .
