no , was it n't black monday .
but while did n't fall apart the new york stock exchange friday as plunged the dow jones industrial average 190.58 points -- most of it in the final hour -- barely managed it to stay this side of chaos .
failed some `` circuit breakers '' installed after the october 1987 crash their first test , unable to cool the selling panic in both stocks and futures say traders , .
once again could n't handle the 49 stock specialist firms on the big board floor -- the buyers and sellers of last resort who was criticized after the 1987 crash -- the selling pressure .
say traders refused big investment banks to step up to the plate to support the beleaguered floor traders by buying big blocks of stock , .
relentlessly beat downward heavy selling of standard & poor 's 500-stock index futures in chicago stocks .
stopped seven big board stocks -- ual , amr , bankamerica , walt disney , capital cities/abc , philip morris and pacific telesis group -- trading and never resumed .
have already begun the finger-pointing .
`` was the equity market illiquid .
'' said christopher pedersen , senior vice president at twenty-first securities corp once again -lcb- -rcb- was the specialists not able to handle the imbalances on the floor of the new york stock exchange , .
countered james maguire , chairman of specialists henderson brothers inc. `` is it easy to say is n't doing the specialist his job : .
when is the dollar in a free-fall , ca n't stop even central banks it .
is calling speculators for a degree of liquidity that is not there in the market '' .
had already left many money managers and some traders their offices early friday afternoon on a warm autumn day -- because was the stock market so quiet .
in a lightning plunge , in barely an hour then surrendered the dow jones industrials about a third of their gains this year , chalking up a 190.58-point , or 6.9 % , loss on the day in gargantuan trading volume .
accelerated final-hour trading to 108.1 million shares , a record for the big board .
at the end of the day , was traded 251.2 million shares .
closed the dow jones industrials at 2569.26 .
was the dow 's decline second in point terms only to the 508-point black monday crash that occurred oct. 19 , 1987 .
in percentage terms , however , was the dow 's dive the 12th-worst ever and the sharpest since fell the market 156.83 , or 8 % , a week after black monday .
fell the dow 22.6 % on black monday .
was shares of ual , the parent of united airlines , extremely active all day friday , reacting to news and rumors about the proposed $ 6.79 billion buy-out of the airline by an employee-management group .
had placed wall street 's takeover-stock speculators , or `` risk arbitragers , '' unusually large bets that would succeed a takeover and would rise ual stock .
at 2:43 p.m. edt , came the sickening news : was halting the big board trading in ual , `` pending news '' .
said one top floor trader on the exchange floor , `` as soon as stopped ual trading , braced we for a panic , '' .
could be seen several traders shaking their heads when flashed the news .
for weeks , the market had been nervous about takeovers , after spurred campeau corp. 's cash crunch concern about the prospects for future highly leveraged takeovers .
and 10 minutes after the ual trading halt came news that could n't get the ual group financing for its bid .
at this point , was down about 35 points the dow .
crumbled the market .
could n't dump arbitragers their ual stock -- but rid they themselves of nearly every `` rumor '' stock had they .
for example , caused their selling trading halts to be declared in usair group , which closed down 3 7/8 to 41 1/2 , delta air lines , which fell 7 3/4 to 69 1/4 , and philips industries , which sank 3 to 21 1/2 .
eventually reopened these stocks .
but as spread panic , began speculators to sell blue-chip stocks such as philip morris and international business machines to offset their losses .
when was halted trading in philip morris , was trading down 3 3/8 , the stock at 41 , while closed 5 5/8 lower ibm at 102 .
snowballed selling because of waves of automatic `` stop-loss '' orders , which is triggered by computer when fall prices to certain levels .
said traders on the other hand , sat tight most of their major institutional investors , .
at 3:07 , now , took one of the market 's post-crash `` reforms '' hold as had plunged the s&p 500 futures contract 12 points , equivalent to around a 100-point drop in the dow industrials .
under an agreement signed by the big board and the chicago mercantile exchange , was temporarily halted trading in chicago .
after the trading halt in the s&p 500 pit in chicago , continued waves of selling to hit stocks themselves on the big board , and continued specialists to notch down prices .
as a result , ripped apart the link between the futures and stock markets .
without the guidepost of stock-index futures -- the barometer of where think traders is headed the overall stock market -- was many traders afraid to trust stock prices quoted on the big board .
was even assailed the futures halt by big board floor traders .
said one major specialist `` screwed up , it things '' .
effectively halted this confusion one form of program trading , stock index arbitrage , that closely link the futures and stock markets , and has been blamed by some for the market 's big swings .
( in a stock-index arbitrage sell program , buy traders big baskets of stocks or sell and offset the trade in futures to lock in a price difference ) .
said `` when came through , the airline information cracked it every model had we for the marketplace , '' a managing director at one of the largest program-trading firms .
`` did n't even get we a chance to do the programs wanted we to do '' .
but kept stocks falling .
was the dow industrials down 55 points at 3 p.m. before the futures-trading halt .
at 3:30 p.m. , at the end of the `` cooling '' off period , was down 114.76 points the average .
during the the s&p trading halt , meanwhile , began s&p futures sell orders piling up , while kept stocks in new york falling sharply .
said big board chairman john j. phelan `` worked well mechanically the circuit breaker yesterday .
just think i be it nonproductive at this point to get into a debate if would have helped index arbitrage things or hurt '' .
under another post-crash system , ( was flying mr. phelan to bangkok as was falling the market ) was talking big board president richard grasso on an `` inter-exchange hot line '' to the other exchanges , the securities and exchange commission and the federal reserve board .
camped out he at a high-tech nerve center on the floor of the big board , where could watch he updates on prices and pending stock orders .
at about 3:30 p.m. edt , resumed s&p futures trading , and for a brief time started the futures and stock markets to come back in line .
stepped in to the futures pit buyers .
but weighed the build-up of s&p futures sell orders on the market , and began the link with stocks to fray again .
at about 3:45 , careened the s&p market to still another limit , of 30 points down , and was locked again trading .
say futures traders was signaling the s&p that could fall the dow as much as 200 points .
during this time , began small investors ringing their brokers , wondering whether had begun another crash .
thought at prudential-bache securities inc. , which is trying to cater to small investors , some demoralized brokers this would be the final confidence-crusher .
be that when took george l. ball , chairman of the prudential insurance co. of america unit , to declare that was the plunge only `` mechanical '' to the internal intercom system .
`` have i a hunch that is this particular decline today something ` more ado about less ' .
'' told mr. ball it would be my inclination to advise clients not to sell , to look for an opportunity to buy , the brokers .
at merrill lynch & co. , the nation 's biggest brokerage firm , was prepared a news release headlined `` merrill lynch comments on market drop '' .
cautioned the release that `` there is significant differences between the current environment and that of october 1987 '' and that there is still `` attractive investment opportunities '' in the stock market .
however , said jeffrey b. lane , president of shearson lehman hutton inc. , that `` is going friday 's plunge to set back relations with customers , '' `` because reinforce it the concern of volatility .
and think i will harp a lot of people on program trading .
be going it to bring right back to the forefront the debate '' .
as the dow average ground to its final 190.58 loss friday , stayed the s&p pit locked at its 30-point trading limit .
said jeffrey yass of program trader susquehanna investment group was 2,000 s&p contracts for sale on the close , the equivalent of $ 330 million in stock .
but there was no buyers .
said traders while involved mainly friday 's debacle professional traders rather than investors , left it the market vulnerable to continued selling this morning , .
settled stock-index futures contracts at much lower prices than indexes of the stock market itself .
at those levels , is set up stocks to be hammered by index arbitragers , who lock in profits by buying futures when fall futures prices , and simultaneously sell off stocks .
but know nobody at what level will open the futures and stocks today .
the de-linkage between the stock and futures markets friday will undoubtedly cause renewed debate about whether is wall street properly prepared for another crash situation .
said the big board 's mr. grasso `` was our systemic performance good '' , .
but `` will look the exchange at the performance of all specialists in all stocks .
'' said he obviously 'll take we a close look at any situation in which think we was n't met the dealer-community obligations , .
but complain privately specialists that just as in the 1987 crash , stayed the `` upstairs '' firms -- big investment banks that support the market by trading big blocks of stock -- on the sidelines during friday 's blood-letting .
said mr. phelan `` will take it another day or two '' to analyze who was buying and selling friday , .
concerning your sept. 21 page-one article on prince charles and the leeches : be it a few hundred years since england has been a kingdom .
be it now the united kingdom of great britain and northern ireland , comprising wales , northern ireland , scotland , and ... oh yes , england , too .
reached ports of call inc. agreements to sell to buyers that was n't disclosed its remaining seven aircraft .
bring the agreements the number of planes have sold the travel company this year as part of a restructuring to a total of nine .
said the company will be used a portion of the $ 32 million realized from the sales to repay its bank debt and other obligations resulting from the currently suspended air-charter operations .
earlier announced the company would sell it its aging fleet of boeing co. 707s because of increasing maintenance costs .
said a consortium of private investors operating as ljh funding co. have made it a $ 409 million cash bid for most of l.j. hooker corp. 's real-estate and shopping-center holdings .
include the $ 409 million bid the assumption of an estimated $ 300 million in secured liabilities on those properties , according to those making the bid .
is led the group by jay shidler , chief executive officer of shidler investment corp. in honolulu , and a. boyd simpson , chief executive of the atlanta-based simpson organization inc .
specialize mr. shidler 's company in commercial real-estate investment and claim to have $ 1 billion in assets ; is mr. simpson a developer and a former senior executive of l.j. hooker .
said mr. simpson `` is the assets good , but require they more money and management than can be provided in l.j. hooker 's current situation , '' in an interview .
was hooker 's philosophy to build and sell .
want we to build and hold '' .
is operating l.j. hooker , based in atlanta , with protection from its creditors under chapter 11 of the u.s. bankruptcy code .
is currently being managed its parent company , hooker corp. of sydney , australia , by a court-appointed provisional liquidator .
said sanford sigoloff , chief executive of l.j. hooker , that have not yet seen he the bid but that would review he it and bring it to the attention of the creditors committee yesterday in a statement .
is estimated the $ 409 million bid by mr. simpson as representing 75 % of the value of all hooker real-estate holdings in the u.s. .
not included is bonwit teller or b. altman & co. , l.j. hooker 's department-store chains in the bid .
cover the offer the massive 1.8 million-square-foot forest fair mall in cincinnati , the 800,000 square-foot richland fashion mall in columbia , s.c. , and the 700,000 square-foot thornton town center mall in thornton , colo .
opened the thornton mall sept. 19 with a bigg 's hypermarket as its anchor ; is expected the columbia mall to open nov. 15 .
is other hooker properties included a 20-story office tower in midtown atlanta , expected to be completed next february ; vacant land sites in florida and ohio ; l.j. hooker international , the commercial real-estate brokerage company that once did business as merrill lynch commercial real estate , plus other shopping centers .
was put together the consortium by hoare govett , the london-based investment banking company that is a subsidiary of security pacific corp .
said allan campbell , the head of mergers and acquisitions at hoare govett , `` do n't anticipate we any problems in raising the funding for the bid , '' in an interview .
is acting hoare govett as the consortium 's investment bankers .
according to people familiar with the consortium , the bid was code-named project klute , a reference to the film `` klute '' in which is saved a prostitute played by actress jane fonda from a psychotic businessman by a police officer named john klute .
was l.j. hooker a small home-building company based in atlanta in 1979 when was hired mr. simpson to push it into commercial development .
grew modestly the company until 1986 , when was acquired a majority position in hooker corp. by australian developer george herscu , currently hooker 's chairman .
proceeded mr. herscu to launch an ambitious , but ill-fated , $ 1 billion acquisition binge that included bonwit teller and b. altman & co. , as well as majority positions in merksamer jewelers , a sacramento chain ; sakowitz inc. , the houston-based retailer , and parisian inc. , the southeast department-store chain .
eventually had mr. simpson and mr. herscu a falling out over the direction of the company , and said mr. simpson resigned he in 1988 .
since then , have sold back to parisian 's management hooker corp. its interest in the parisian chain and is currently attempting to sell the b. altman & co. chain .
in addition , is seeking robert sakowitz , chief executive of the sakowitz chain , funds to buy out the hooker interest in his company .
is currently being offered the merksamer chain for sale by first boston corp .
reached in honolulu , said mr. shidler that believe he can become the various hooker malls profitable with new management .
said mr. shidler `` is these n't mature assets , but have they the potential to be so , '' .
`` managed properly , and with a long-term outlook , can become these investment-grade quality properties .
said statistics canada , a federal agency , totaled up 14.8 % from the preceding week 's total of 254,280 tons , canadian steel-ingot production 291,890 metric tons in the week ended oct. 7 , .
was up 6.2 % from 274,963 tons a year earlier the week 's total .
was the year-to-date total 12,006,883 tons , up 7.8 % from 11,141,711 tons a year earlier .
will be dated the bills oct. 26 and will mature oct. 25 , 1990 .
must be received bids by 1 p.m. edt thursday at the treasury or at federal reserve banks or branches .
as peppered small investors their mutual funds with phone calls over the weekend , said big fund managers have they a strong defense against any wave of withdrawals : cash .
unlike the weekend before black monday , was n't swamped the funds with heavy withdrawal requests .
and have built up many fund managers cash levels and say will be buying they stock this week .
at fidelity investments , the nation 's largest fund company , was up sharply , telephone volume but was it still at just half the level of the weekend preceding black monday in 1987 .
said the boston firm was running stock-fund redemptions at less than one-third the level two years ago .
as of yesterday afternoon , represented the redemptions less than 15 % of the total cash position of about $ 2 billion of fidelity 's stock funds .
said c. bruce johnstone , who run fidelity investments ' $ 5 billion equity-income fund `` two years ago there was massive redemption levels over the weekend and a lot of fear around , '' .
`` feel this more like a one-shot deal .
is n't panicking people '' .
may come the test today .
came too late for to act many investors friday 's stock market sell-off .
have held off some shareholders until today because would take any fund exchanges made after friday 's close place at today 's closing prices .
during the 1987 debacle did n't begin stock fund redemptions to snowball until after opened the market on black monday .
but say fund managers be they ready .
for instance , hold mario gabelli , cash positions well above 20 % in several of his funds .
said windsor fund 's john neff and mutual series ' michael price had raised they their cash levels to more than 20 % and 30 % , respectively , this year .
built up even peter lynch , manager of fidelity 's $ 12.7 billion magellan fund , the nation 's largest stock fund , cash to 7 % or $ 850 million .
is one reason that after two years of monthly net redemptions , posted the fund net inflows of money from investors in august and september .
said mr. lynch `` have let i build up , the money '' who added that has had he trouble finding stocks likes he , .
have raised not all funds cash levels , of course .
as a group , held stock funds 10.2 % of assets the latest figures available from the investment company institute in cash as of august , .
was that modestly higher than the 8.8 % and 9.2 % levels in august and september of 1987 .
also , would force persistent redemptions some fund managers to dump stocks to raise cash .
but is a strong level of investor withdrawals much more unlikely this time around , said fund managers .
is a major reason that already have sharply scaled back investors their purchases of stock funds since black monday .
have rebounded stock-fund sales in recent months , but is still running monthly net purchases at less than half 1987 levels .
said john bogle , chairman of vanguard group inc. , a big valley forge , pa. , fund company `` there be not nearly as much froth , '' .
argue many fund managers that 's now the time to buy .
added vincent bajakian , manager of the $ 1.8 billion wellington fund , to his positions in bristol-myers squibb , woolworth and dun & bradstreet friday .
and today 'll be looking he to buy drug stocks like eli lilly , pfizer and american home products have been bolstered whose dividend yields by stock declines .
for his part , snapped up fidelity 's mr. lynch , southern co. shares friday after got hammered the stock .
if drop further the market today , said he 'll be buying he blue chips such as bristol-myers and kellogg .
`` if croak they stocks like that , '' said he , present it an opportunity that is `` the kind of thing dream you about '' .
said major mutual-fund groups was arriving phone calls at twice the normal weekend pace yesterday .
but was seeking most investors share prices and other information .
was trading volume only modestly higher than normal .
still , is n't taking fund groups any chances .
hope they to avoid the jammed phone lines and other snags that infuriated some fund investors in october 1987 .
on saturday opened fidelity its 54 walk-in investor centers across the country .
normally is the centers closed through the weekend .
in addition , will open east coast centers at 7:30 edt this morning , instead of the normal 8:30 .
increased t. rowe price associates inc. its staff of phone representatives to handle investor requests .
noted the baltimore-based group that moved some investors money from stock funds to money-market funds .
said steven norwitz , a vice president but seemed most investors to be `` in an information mode rather than in a transaction mode , '' .
and among other groups , said vanguard , was adding it more phone representatives today to help get through investors .
in an unusual move , moved several funds to calm investors with recordings on their toll-free phone lines .
said a recording at gabelli & co. funds `` view we -lcb- friday 's -rcb- market decline as offering a buying opportunity us as long-term investors , '' over the weekend .
had the janus group a similar recording for investors .
expect several fund managers a rough market this morning before stabilize prices .
is some early selling likely to stem from investors and portfolio managers who want to lock in this year 's fat profits .
have averaged stock funds a staggering gain of 25 % through september , according to lipper analytical services inc .
predict elaine garzarelli , who run shearson lehman hutton inc. 's $ 335 million sector analysis portfolio , will open down at least 50 points on technical factors and `` some panic selling '' the market .
but expect she prices to rebound soon and is telling investors expect she wo n't decline the stock market more than 10 % to 15 % from recent highs .
said she `` is this not a major crash , '' .
nevertheless , said ms. garzarelli was swamped she with phone calls over the weekend from nervous shareholders .
`` is half of them really scared and want to sell , '' said she , `` but '' be trying i to talk out of it them .
added she `` if all was they bullish , i 'd really be upset '' , .
argue fund managers was the backdrop to friday 's slide markedly different from that of the october 1987 crash , .
say they two years ago , unlike today , was the dollar weak , was rising interest rates and was the market very overvalued , .
said stephen boesel , manager of the $ 580 million t. rowe price growth and income fund `` from the investors ' standpoint , learned institutions and individuals a painful lesson ... by selling at the lows on black monday , '' .
this time , `` do n't think i 'll get we a panic reaction .
said newport corp. expect it to report fiscal-first-quarter earnings of between 15 cents and 19 cents a share , somewhat below analysts ' estimates of 19 cents to 23 cents .
said the maker of scientific instruments and laser parts fell orders below expectations in recent months .
added a spokesman that will about equal sales in the current quarter the yearearlier quarter 's figure , when reported newport net income of $ 1.7 million , or 21 cents a share , on $ 14.1 million in sales .
reached ripples from the strike by 55,000 machinists union members against boeing co. air carriers friday as announced america west airlines will postpone it its new service out of houston because of delays in receiving aircraft from the seattle jet maker .
said peter otradovec , vice president for planning at the phoenix , ariz. , carrier , that `` have caused the work stoppage at boeing , now entering its 13th day , some turmoil in our scheduling '' and that would now be put more than 500 passengers who were booked to fly out of houston on america west on other airlines in an interview .
said mr. otradovec told boeing america west that would n't be delivered the 757 was supposed it to get this thursday until nov. 7 -- the day after had been planning the airline to initiate service at houston with four daily flights , including three nonstops to phoenix and one nonstop to las vegas .
now , is n't expected those routes to begin until jan .
is also supposed boeing to send another 757 twin-engine aircraft as well as a 737 to america west by year 's end .
too , is those , almost certain to arrive late .
at this point , have been affected no other america west flights -- including its new service at san antonio , texas ; newark , n.j. ; and palmdale , calif. -- by the delays in boeing deliveries .
nevertheless , underscore the company 's reaction the domino effect can have a huge manufacturer such as boeing that on other parts of the economy .
also is it sure to help put the machinists added pressure on the company .
said tom baker , president of machinists ' district 751 , `` just do n't feel i that can really stand the company a prolonged walkout , or would want '' in an interview yesterday .
`` do n't think i would like very much their customers it '' .
though , is america west , a smaller airline and therefore more affected than would be many of its competitors by the delayed delivery of a single plane .
said mr. otradovec `` figure i that probably have american and united such a hard time counting all the planes in their fleets , might not miss they one at all , '' .
indeed , did n't seem a random check friday to indicate that was having the strike much of an effect on other airline operations .
have southwest airlines a boeing 737-300 set for delivery at the end of this month and expect to have the plane on time .
said a southwest spokesman `` be it so close to completion , be told boeing us there wo n't be a problem , '' .
said a spokesman for amr corp. have assured boeing american airlines will deliver it a 757 on time later this month .
is preparing american to take delivery of another 757 in early december and 20 more next year and is n't anticipating any changes in that timetable .
in seattle , explained a boeing spokesman that the company has been in constant communication with all of its customers and that was it impossible to predict might be triggered what further disruptions by the strike .
meanwhile , have been trying supervisors and non-striking employees to finish some 40 aircraft -- mostly 747 and 767 jumbo jets at the company 's everett , wash. , plant -- that were all but completed before the walkout .
as of friday , had been delivered four and was supposed a fifth plane , a 747-400 , to be flown out over the weekend to air china .
have yet been set no date to get back to the bargaining table .
said doug hammond , the federal mediator who has been in contact with both sides since began the strike `` want we to make sure know they what want they before come back , they '' .
for one , have been anticipating the investment community , a speedy resolution .
though was battered along with the rest of the market boeing 's stock price friday , actually have risen it over the last two weeks on the strength of new orders .
said howard rubel , an analyst at cyrus j. lawrence inc `` have taken the market two views : that will get settled the labor situation in the short term and that look things very rosy for boeing in the long term , '' .
fell boeing 's shares $ 4 friday to close at $ 57.375 in composite trading on the new york stock exchange .
but said mr. baker think he the earliest could be struck a pact would be the end of this month , hinting that may resume as early as this week the company and union negotiations .
still , said he , be it possible that could last considerably longer the strike .
`` would n't expect i an immediate resolution to anything '' .
last week , sent boeing chairman frank shrontz a letter , striking workers saying that `` to my knowledge , represent boeing 's offer the best overall three-year contract of any major u.s. industrial firm in recent history '' .
but called mr. baker the letter -- and the company 's offer of a 10 % wage increase over the life of the pact , plus bonuses -- `` very weak '' .
added he that miscalculated the company the union 's resolve and the workers ' disgust with being forced to work overtime many hours .
in separate developments : -- have broken off talks between machinists representatives at lockheed corp. and the calabasas , calif. , aerospace company .
is continuing however the union to work through its expired contract , .
had planned it a strike vote for next sunday , but has been pushed back indefinitely that .
-- said united auto workers local 1069 , which represent 3,000 workers at boeing 's helicopter unit in delaware county , pa. , agreed it to extend its contract on a day-by-day basis , with a 10-day notification to cancel , while continue it bargaining .
expired the accord yesterday .
-- and on friday said boeing received it an order from martinair holland for four model 767-300 wide-body jetliners valued at a total of about $ 326 million .
will be delivered the planes , long range versions of the medium-haul twin-jet , with pratt & whitney pw4060 engines .
is pratt & whitney a unit of united technologies inc .
is based martinair holland in amsterdam .
said a boeing spokeswoman is still being worked out a delivery date for the planes `` for a variety of reasons , but not because of the strike '' .
contributed bridget o'brian to this article .
said atco ltd. is considering its utilities arm building new electric power plants , some valued at more than one billion canadian dollars ( us$ 851 million ) , in great britain and elsewhere .
said c.s. richardson , atco 's senior vice president , finance , is reviewing its 50.1%-owned canadian utilities ltd. unit cogeneration projects in eastern canada , and conventional electric power generating plants elsewhere , including britain , where the british government plans to allow limited competition in electrical generation from private-sector suppliers as part of its privatization program .
`` is the projects big .
'' said mr. richardson they can be c$ 1 billion plus , .
said he `` but would n't go alone , we into them '' and canadian utilities ' equity stake would be small , .
`` ideally , 'd like we to be the operator -lcb- of the project -rcb- and a modest equity investor .
said he is our long suit our proven ability to operate power plants , '' .
would n't offer mr. richardson specifics regarding atco 's proposed british project , but said he would compete it with two huge british power generating companies that would be formed under the country 's plan to privatize its massive water and electric utilities for customers .
plan britain 's government to raise about # 20 billion ( $ 31.05 billion ) from the sale of most of its giant water and electric utilities , beginning next month .
is alone expected the planned electric utility sale , scheduled for next year , to raise # 13 billion , making it the world 's largest public offering .
had canadian utilities 1988 revenue of c$ 1.16 billion , mainly from its natural gas and electric utility businesses in alberta , where serve the company about 800,000 customers .
`` there seems to be a move around the world to deregulate the generation of electricity , '' said mr. richardson , and hope canadian utilities to capitalize on it .
said he `` is this a real thrust on our utility side , '' adding that is also mulling canadian utilities projects in underdeveloped countries , though he would be specific , .
is canadian utilities n't alone in exploring power generation opportunities in britain , in anticipation of the privatization program .
said bruce stram , vice president , corporate strategy and corporate planning , with enron corp. , houston , a big natural gas producer and pipeline operator `` be certainly looking we at some power generating projects in england , '' .
said mr. stram is considering enron building gas-fired power plants capable of producing about 500 megawatts of power in the u.k. at a cost of about $ 300 million to $ 400 million .
said pse inc. expect it to report third earnings of $ 1.3 million to $ 1.7 million , or 14 cents to 18 cents a share .
in the year-ago quarter , had the designer and operator of cogeneration and waste heat recovery plants net income of $ 326,000 , or four cents a share , on revenue of about $ 41.4 million .
said the company is related the improvement to additional cogeneration facilities that have been put into operation .
is concorde trans-atlantic flights $ 2,400 to paris and $ 3,200 to london .
in a centennial journal article oct. 5 , was reversed the fares .
said diamond shamrock offshore partners had discovered offshore louisiana it gas .
is diamond shamrock the operator , with a 100 % interest in the well .
rose diamond shamrock offshore 's stock 12.5 cents friday to close at $ 8.25 in new york stock exchange composite trading .
said kaufman & broad home corp. formed it a $ 53.4 million limited partnership subsidiary to buy land in california suitable for residential development .
is the partnership , kaufman & broad land development venture limited partnership , a 50-50 joint venture with a trust created by institutional clients of heitman advisory corp. , a unit of heitman financial corp. , a real estate advisory , management and development company with offices in chicago and beverly hills , calif .
declined kaufman & broad , a home building company , to identify the institutional investors .
have n't yet received the land to be purchased by the joint venture zoning and other approvals required for development , and will be part of kaufman & broad 's job to obtain such approvals .
said bruce karatz , president and chief executive officer of kaufman & broad run the partnership the risk that may not get it the approvals for development , but in return , can buy it land at wholesale rather than retail prices , which can result in sizable savings , .
`` there is really very few companies that have adequate capital to buy properties in a raw state for cash .
'' said mr. karatz , typically , option developers property , and once get they the administrative approvals , then buy they it , adding that believe he is the joint venture the first of its kind .
`` usually operate we in that conservative manner '' .
said mr. karatz by setting up the joint venture , can take kaufman & broad the more aggressive approach of buying raw land , while avoiding the negative impacts to its own balance sheet , .
is putting up the company only 10 % of the capital , although is it responsible for providing management , planning and processing services to the joint venture .
said mr. karatz `` is this one of the best ways to assure a pipeline of land to fuel our growth at a minimum risk to our company , '' .
when took off the price of plastics in 1987 , went along quantum chemical corp. for the ride .
appeared the timing of quantum 's chief executive officer , john hoyt stookey , to be nothing less than inspired , because had just increased he quantum 's reliance on plastics .
outpaced the company much of the chemical industry as grew fivefold annual profit in two years .
said mr. stookey `` be going it to last a whole lot longer than think anybody '' of the boom , .
but now have nose-dived prices and is plummeting quantum 's profit .
is looking some securities analysts for no better than break-even results from the company for the third quarter , compared with year-earlier profit of $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , on sales of $ 724.4 million .
having lost nearly a quarter of its value since sept. 1 , closed down $ 1.125 , the stock , at $ 34.375 share , in new york stock exchange composite trading friday .
to a degree , represent quantum the new times that have arrived for producers of the so-called commodity plastics that pervade modern life .
having just passed through one of the most profitable periods in their history , now see these producers eroding their prices .
to be sure , is pricing cycles , nothing new for plastics producers .
and look the financial decline of some steep only in comparison with the heady period that is just behind them .
say an executive at one of quantum 's competitors `` was we all wonderful heroes last year , '' .
`` now be we at the bottom of the heap . ''
is magnified at quantum , which is based in new york , the trouble by the company 's heavy dependence on plastics .
once known as national distillers & chemical corp. , exited the company the wine and spirits business and plowed more of its resources into plastics after took mr. stookey the chief executive 's job in 1986 .
declined mr. stookey , 59 years old , to be interviewed for this article , but have consistently argued he that over the long haul -- across both the peaks and the troughs of the plastics market -- will prosper quantum through its new direction .
is mostly tied quantum 's lot to polyethylene resin , used to make garbage bags , milk jugs , housewares , toys and meat packaging , among other items .
in the u.s. polyethylene market , have claimed quantum the largest share , about 20 % .
but have its competitors -- including dow chemical co. , union carbide corp. and several oil giants -- much broader business interests and so are better cushioned against price swings .
when move the price of polyethylene a mere penny a pound , fluctuate quantum 's annual profit by about 85 cents a share , provided is changing no other variables .
in recent months even more than that of other commodity plastics , have taken the price of polyethylene , a dive .
have skidded benchmark grades , which still sold for as much as 50 cents a pound last spring , to between 35 cents and 40 cents .
meanwhile , have n't dropped nearly so fast the price of ethylene , the chemical building block of polyethylene , .
hurt badly , that discrepancy quantum because cover its own plants only about half of its ethylene needs .
by many accounts , came an early hint of a price rout in the making at the start of this year .
abruptly halted china , which had been putting in huge orders for polyethylene , them .
calculating that would soon be sloshing excess polyethylene around the world , then bet other buyers that prices had peaked and so began to draw down inventories rather than order new product .
say kenneth mitchell , director of dow 's polyethylene business , was surprised producers to learn how much had swelled inventories throughout the distribution chain as spiraled up prices .
say he `` was even hoarding people bags , '' .
now hope producers have hit prices bottom .
recently announced they increases of a few cents a pound to take effect in the next several weeks .
know however , no one whether will stick the new posted prices once start producers and customers to haggle , .
is one doubter george krug , a chemical-industry analyst at oppenheimer & co. and a bear on plastics stocks .
noting others ' estimates of when can be sustained price increases , remark he `` say some october , .
say i 1992 '' .
argue he that will be undermined efforts to firm up prices by producers ' plans to expand production capacity .
is a quick turnaround crucial to quantum because remain its cash requirements heavy .
is trying the company to carry out a three-year , $ 1.3 billion plant-expansion program started this year .
at the same time , will more than double its annual payments on long-term debt from a year ago to about $ 240 million , largely because of debt taken on to pay a $ 50-a-share special dividend earlier this year .
described quantum the payout at the time as a way for to share it the bonanza with its holders , because was n't reflecting its stock price the huge profit increases .
saw some analysts the payment as an effort also to dispel takeover speculation .
has become whether might eventually force a cash crunch the company to cut its quarterly dividend , raised only a year ago , 36 % to 75 cents a share a topic of intense speculation on wall street since deflected mr. stookey dividend questions in a sept. 29 meeting with analysts .
viewed some his response -- that review regularly company directors the dividend -- as nothing more than the standard line from executives .
but came away others thinking had given he something less than his usual straight-from-the-shoulder performance .
in any case , on the day of the meeting , slid quantum 's shares $ 2.625 to $ 36.625 in big board trading .
on top of everything else , confront quantum a disaster at its plant in morris , ill .
after idled an explosion the plant in june , progressed the company in september to within 12 hours of completing the drawn-out process of restarting it .
then occurred a second explosion .
died two workers and remain six in the hospital .
add this human toll the most painful dimension yet to the sudden change in quantum 's fortunes .
until this year , had been steadily lowering the company its accident rate and picking up trade-group safety awards .
could introduce a prolonged production halt at the plant another imponderable into quantum 's financial future .
when have just been running flat out a plant to meet demand , calculating lost profit and thus claims under business-interruption insurance is straightforward .
but become the numbers trickier -- and subject to dickering between insured and insurer -- when is shifting demand .
recall theodore semegran , an analyst at shearson lehman hutton who went through this exercise during his former career as a chemical engineer `` say you could have sold you x percent of this product and y percent of that , '' .
hope quantum will resume the morris plant , where got limited production under way last week , full operation by year 's end .
usually account the plant for 20 % to 25 % of quantum 's polyethylene production and 50 % of its ethylene production .
look not everything grim for quantum .
should strengthen the plant expansion the company 's sway in the polyethylene business , where is often taken market share through sheer capacity .
by lifting ethylene production , will also lower the expansion the company 's raw material costs .
is also tightening quantum its grip on its one large business outside chemicals , propane marketing .
through a venture with its investment banker , first boston corp. , completed quantum an acquisition of petrolane inc. in august in a transaction valued at $ 1.18 billion .
is petrolane the second-largest propane distributor in the u.s. .
still , have right now quantum a crisis to get past .
speculate some analysts may yet attract the weakening stock a suitor .
is the name surfacing in rumors british petroleum co. , which is looking to expand its polyethylene business in the u.s. .
asked about a bid for quantum , say a bp spokesman , `` pretty much have we a policy of not commenting on rumors , and think i fall that in that category .
is disbanding rjr nabisco inc. its division responsible for buying network advertising time , just a month after moving 11 of the group 's 14 employees to new york from atlanta .
confirmed a spokesman for the new york-based food and tobacco giant , taken private earlier this year in a $ 25 billion leveraged buy-out by kohlberg kravis roberts & co. , that is shutting down it the rjr nabisco broadcast unit , and dismissing its 14 employees , in a move to save money .
said the spokesman is discussing rjr its network-buying plans with its two main advertising firms , fcb/leber katz and mccann erickson .
said the spokesman , who declined to specify how much spend rjr on network television time `` found we that could do an ad agency just as good a job at significantly lower cost , with the size of our media purchases '' .
said an executive close to the company is spending down from roughly $ 200 million last year rjr about $ 140 million on network television time this year , .
said the spokesman will be disbanded the broadcast unit dec. 1 , and wo n't affect the move rjr 's print , radio and spot-television buying practices .
had been based the broadcast group in new york until a year ago , when moved rjr 's previous management it to atlanta , the company 's headquarters before this summer .
said one employee with the group moved back to new york rjr 11 employees of the group in september because `` there was supposed to be a future '' .
said he hired the company three more buyers for the unit within the past two weeks , wooing them from jobs with advertising agencies .
said the rjr spokesman moved the company the 11 employees to new york last month because the group had then been in the midst of purchasing ad time for the networks ' upcoming season .
said he `` could n't be completed the studies -lcb- on closing the unit -rcb- until now , '' .
was the group 's president , peter chrisanthopoulos , n't in his office friday afternoon to comment .
is allocating the u.s. , which is finalizing its steel-import quotas , to developing and newly industrialized countries which have relatively unsubsidized steel industries a larger share of its steel market .
meanwhile , have negotiated the u.s. a significant cut in japan 's steel quota , and made only a minor increase to the steel allotment for the european community .
is expected brazil , similar to mexico and south korea , to negotiate a somewhat bigger share of the u.s. market than had it under the previous five-year steel quotas , which expired sept. 30 .
is brazil and venezuela the only two countries that have n't completed steel talks with the u.s. for the year ending oct. 1 , 1990 .
in recent years , have supplied u.s. steelmakers about 80 % of the 100 million tons of steel used annually by the nation .
of the remaining 20 % needed , allocate the steel-quota negotiations about 15 % to foreign suppliers , with supplied the difference mainly by canada -- which is n't included in the quota program .
also have supplied other countries that do n't have formal steel quotas with the u.s. , such as taiwan , sweden and argentina , steel .
earlier this year said the bush administration would extend it steel quotas , known as voluntary restraint agreements , until march 31 , 1992 .
also said it would use it that two-and-a-half year period to work toward an international consensus on freeing up the international steel trade , which has been notoriously managed , subsidized and protected by governments .
termed the u.s. its plan , a `` trade liberalization program , '' despite the fact that is it merely an extension .
virtually doubled mexico , which was one of the first countries to conclude its steel talks with the u.s. , its quota to 0.95 % of the u.s. steel market from 0.48 % under the previous quotas .
is set south korea , which had 1.9 % under the previous quotas , to get a small increase to about 1.95 % .
rise that increase to slightly more than 2 % of the u.s. market if is included a joint korean-u.s. steel project .
meanwhile , is expected brazil to increase its allowance from the 1.43 % share have had it in recent years .
have n't been filling the ec and japan -- the u.s. 's largest steel suppliers -- their quotas to the full extent .
have been supplying the ec steel industry , which has been coping with strong european demand , about 5 % of the u.s. market compared with recent quotas of about 6.7 % .
have been shipping japan steel to total about 4.5 % of the u.s. market compared with a quota of 5.9 % .
in the recent talks , had the ec increased its quota about 300,000 tons , to 7 % of the u.s. market from 6.7 % in 1988 .
however , have agreed japan , to cut its quota to about 5 % from 5.9 % previously .
provide japan , the ec , brazil , mexico and south korea about 80 % of the steel imported to the u.s. under the quota program .
is supplied the balance by a host of smaller exporters , such as australia and venezuela .
had the u.s. about an extra 2 % of the domestic steel market to give to foreign suppliers in its quota talks .
was essentially made up that of a 1 % increase in the overall quota program and 1 % from cutting japan 's allowance .
will repeat negotiators from the white house trade office these quota negotiations next year when will have they another 1 % of the u.s. steel market to allocate .
is built these optional 1%-a-year increases to the steel quota program to give leverage with foreign steel suppliers to try to get them to withdraw subsidies and protectionism from their own steel industries its negotiators into the bush administration 's steel-quota program .
expect elcotel inc. fiscal second-quarter earnings to trail 1988 results , but anticipate that will lead several new products to a `` much stronger '' performance in its second half .
had elcotel , a telecommunications company , net income of $ 272,000 , or five cents a share , in its year-earlier second quarter , ended sept. 30 .
totaled revenue $ 5 million .
said george pierce , chairman and chief executive officer , that earnings in the most recent quarter will be about two cents a share on revenue of just under $ 4 million in an interview .
said mr. pierce , reflect the lower results , a 12-month decline in industry sales of privately owned pay telephones , elcotel 's primary business .
although expect mr. pierce that line of business to strengthen in the next year , said he will also benefit elcotel from moving into other areas .
foremost among those is the company 's entrance into the public facsimile business , said mr. pierce .
within the next year , expect elcotel to place 10,000 fax machines , made by minolta in japan , in hotels , municipal buildings , drugstores and other public settings around the country .
will provide elcotel a credit-card reader for to collect the machines billing data , store and forward .
said mr. pierce should realize elcotel a minimum of $ 10 of recurring net earnings for each machine each month .
have also developed elcotel an automatic call processor that will make further use of the company 's system for automating credit-card calls and collect calls and handling .
will provide automatic call processors that system for virtually any telephone , said mr. pierce , not just phones produced by elcotel .
will also be producing the company a new line of convenience telephones , which do n't accept coins , for use in hotel lobbies , office lobbies , hospitality lounges and similar settings .
estimated mr. pierce that would produce the processors and convenience phones about $ 5 of recurring net earnings for each machine each month .
said the central statistical office rose britain 's retail price index 0.7 % in september from august and was up 7.6 % for the year , .
said quest medical inc. adopted it a shareholders ' rights plan in which will be distributed rights to purchase shares of common stock as a dividend to shareholders of record as of oct. 23 .
said the company was n't adopted the plan in response to any known offers for quest , a maker and marketer of hospital products .
allow the rights shareholders to purchase quest stock at a discount if acquire any person or group more than 15 % of the company 's common stock or announce a tender offer .
may soon be replaced measuring cups by tablespoons in the laundry room .
plan procter & gamble co. to begin testing a superconcentrated detergent that will require only a few spoonfuls per washload next month .
stem the move from lessons learned in japan where have had local competitors phenomenal success with concentrated soapsuds .
also mark it p&g 's growing concern that may bring its japanese rivals , such as kao corp. , their superconcentrates to the u.s. .
got clobbered two years ago the cincinnati consumer-products giant in japan when introduced kao a powerful detergent , called attack , which quickly won a 30 % stake in the japanese markets .
say one industry watcher `` do n't want they to get caught again , '' .
say retailers in phoenix , ariz. , p&g 's new powdered detergent -- to be called cheer with color guard -- will be on shelves in that market by early november .
confirmed a p&g spokeswoman that started shipments to phoenix late last month .
said she will study the company results from this market before expanding to others .
is superconcentrates n't entirely new for p&g .
introduced the company a superconcentrated lemon cheer in japan after watching the success of attack .
when hit attack the shelves in 1987 , fell p&g 's share of the japanese market to about 8 % from more than 20 % .
with the help of lemon cheer , is now estimated p&g 's share to be 12 % .
while have embraced the japanese the compact packaging and convenience of concentrated products , the true test for p&g will be in the $ 4 billion u.s. detergent market , where is growth slow and have gained liquids prominence over powders .
may have chosen the company to market the product under the cheer name since be already expanded it its best-selling tide into 16 different varieties , including this year 's big hit , tide with bleach .
with superconcentrates , however , is it n't always easy to persuade consumers that is less more ; tend many people to dump too much detergent into the washing machine , believing that take it a cup of powder to really clean the laundry .
in the early 1980s , tried p&g to launch here a concentrated detergent under the ariel brand name market it that in europe .
but bombed the product , which was n't as concentrated as the new cheer , in a market test in denver and was dropped .
also have tried repeatedly p&g and others to hook consumers on detergent and fabric softener combinations in pouches , but have n't sold well , they despite the convenience .
but contend p&g is the new cheer a unique formula that also offer an ingredient that prevent colors from fading .
and is expected retailers to embrace the product , in part because will take up it less shelf space .
say hugh zurkuhlen , an analyst at salomon bros `` when was shelf space cheap , was bigger better , '' .
but with vying so many brands for space , be that no longer the case .
if sell well , the new cheer is the trend toward smaller packaging likely to accelerate as follow competitors with their own superconcentrates .
say he `` then will probably push out altogether , retailers the -lcb- less-established -rcb- brands '' .
is competition bound to get tougher if introduce kao a product like attack in the u.s. .
to be sure , would n't have kao an easy time taking away from the mighty p&g , which have about 23 % of the market u.s. market share .
previously have said kao officials is they interested in selling detergents in the u.s. , but so far have focused the company on acquisitions , such as last year 's purchase of andrew jergens co. , a cincinnati hand-lotion maker .
also have it a product-testing facility in california .
believe some go p&g 's interest in a superconcentrated detergent beyond the concern for the japanese .
say mr. zurkuhlen `` is this something would do p&g with or without kao , '' .
with worsening economic tension between the u.s. and japan , had feared many japanese last week 's visit from u.s. trade representative carla hills .
expected they a new barrage of demands that do quickly japan something to reduce its trade surplus with the u.s. .
instead , got they a discussion of the need for to work together the u.s. and japan and of the importance of the long-term view .
had mrs. hills ' first trip to japan as america 's chief trade negotiator a completely different tone from last month 's visit by commerce secretary robert a. mosbacher .
called mr. mosbacher for concrete results by next spring in negotiations over fundamental japanese business practices that supposedly inhibit free trade .
said he such results should be `` measurable in dollars and cents '' in reducing the u.s. trade deficit with japan .
but speaking at a breakfast meeting of the american chamber of commerce in japan on saturday , stressed mrs. hills , that `` is not the objective to get definitive action by spring or summer , is rather it to have a blueprint for action '' .
added she that expected she `` perhaps to have a down payment ... some small step to convince the american people and the japanese people that be moving we in earnest '' .
wo n't become how translate such remarks into policy clear for months .
offered american and japanese officials several theories for the difference in approach betwen mr. mosbacher and mrs. hills .
said others may feel the bush administration is getting out of hand the rhetoric on both sides .
and said some reflected it the growing debate in washington over pursuing free trade with japan versus some kind of managed trade .
replied mrs. hills asked to compare her visit to mr. mosbacher 's , : `` did n't hear i every word spoke he , but as a general proposition , think i have we a very consistent trade strategy in the bush administration '' .
yet said more than one american official who sat in with her during three days of talks with japanese officials often was her tone surprisingly `` conciliatory '' .
said mrs. hills `` think i my line has been very consistent , '' at a news conference saturday afternoon .
`` be painted sometimes i as ferocious , because perhaps have i a ferocious list of statutes to implement .
do n't feel i very ferocious .
do n't feel i either hard or soft .
feel i committed to the program of opening markets and expanding trade '' .
when met she the local press for the first time on friday , firmly reiterated mrs. hills the need for progress in removing barriers to trade in forest products , satellites and supercomputers , three areas targeted under the super 301 provision of the 1988 trade bill .
highlighted she exclusionary business practices have identified the u.s. government that .
but was her main thrust to promote the importance of world-wide free trade and open competition .
said she was the trade imbalance mainly due to macroeconomic factors and should n't be tackled by setting quantitative targets .
at her news conference for japanese reporters , summed up one economics journalist the japanese sense of relief .
said he `` was my impression that you would be a scary old lady , '' drawing a few nervous chuckles from his colleagues , .
mrs. hills ' remarks did raise questions , at least among some u.s. officials , about what exactly is her stance on u.s. access to the japanese semiconductor market .
have interpreted many americans a 1986 agreement as assuring a 20 % share by 1991 , u.s. companies but have denied the japanese making any such promise .
at one of her news conferences , said mrs. hills `` believe i can do much better than 20 % we '' , .
but stressed she `` i am against managed trade , .
will not enter i into an agreement that stipulate to a percentage of the market .
said traditional industries inc. expect it to report a net loss for the fourth quarter that ended june 30 and is seeking new financing .
said the seller of photographic products and services is considering it a number of financing alternatives , including seeking increases in its credit lines .
declined traditional to estimate the amount of the loss and would n't say if expect it to show a profit for the year .
in the year ended june 30 , 1988 , reported traditional net income of $ 4.9 million , or $ 1.21 a share .
did n't break out the company its fourth-quarter results .
in the latest nine months was net income $ 4.7 million , or $ 1.31 a share , on revenue of $ 44.3 million .
separately , said the company would file it a delayed fiscal-year report with the securities and exchange commission `` within approximately 45 days '' .
said it resulted the delay from difficulties in resolving its accounting of a settlement with the federal trade commission .
under an agreement filed in federal court in august to settle ftc objections to some traditional sales practices , said traditional would establish it a $ 250,000 trust fund to provide refunds to certain customers .
said information international inc. was sued it by a buyer of its computerized newspaper-publishing system , alleging that failed the company to correct deficiencies in the system .
said a spokesman for information international seek the lawsuit by two units of morris communications corp. restitution of the system 's about $ 3 million purchase price and cancellation of a software license provided by the morris units to information international for alleged failure to pay royalties .
said information international believe it that filed in federal court in georgia , is the complaints , without merit .
is based closely held morris communications in augusta , ga .
is the units that filed the suit southeastern newspapers corp. and florida publishing co .
completed syms corp. the sale of its a. sulka & co. subsidiary , a men 's luxury haberdashery , to luxco investments .
was n't disclosed terms .
said marcy syms , president of the parent , `` as grow syms 's core business of off-price retailing , become a small subsidiary that is operationally unrelated a difficult distraction , '' in a statement .
said a spokeswoman operate sulka a total of seven stores in the u.s. and overseas .
operate syms 25 off-price apparel stores in the u.s. .
could persist the oil industry 's middling profits through the rest of the year .
in the next few days is expected major oil companies to report much less robust earnings than they did for the third quarter a year ago , largely reflecting deteriorating chemical prices and gasoline profitability .
may improve the gasoline picture this quarter , but is chemicals likely to remain weak , reducing chances that could equal profits their year-earlier performance say industry executives and analysts , .
said glenn cox , president of phillips petroleum co. , `` is seeing the industry a softening somewhat in volume and certainly in price in petrochemicals , '' in an interview .
added he `` will obviously impact that change third and fourth quarter earnings for the industry in general , '' .
did n't forecast he phillips 's results .
but say securities analysts phillips will be among the companies hard-hit by weak chemical prices and will probably post a drop in third-quarter earnings .
so , too , predict many analysts , will exxon corp. , chevron corp. and amoco corp .
have plunged it 13 % since july to around 26 cents a pound .
a year ago sold ethylene peaking at about 34 cents last december for 33 cents , .
is a big reason for the chemical price retreat overexpansion .
beginning in mid-1987 , began prices accelerating as spurred a growing u.s. economy and the weak dollar demand .
added furiously companies capacity .
now , is greatly increased supplies on the market , while is the dollar stronger , and is domestic economic growth slower .
was third-quarter profits from gasoline weaker .
said william randol , a securities analyst at first boston corp `` was refining margins so good in the third quarter of last year and generally not very good this year , '' .
ran flat out oil company refineries to prepare for a robust holiday driving season in july and august that did n't materialize .
pushed down the excess supply gasoline prices in that period .
in addition , was up some from a year earlier , crude oil prices further pressuring profitability .
say refiners picked up margins in september , and believe many industry officials will rebound gasoline profits this quarter , though still not to the level of 1988 's fourth quarter .
during the 1988 second half , posted many companies record gasoline and chemical profits .
may turn out crude oil production to be the most surprising element of companies ' earnings this year .
-- averaging roughly $ 2 a barrel higher in the third quarter than a year earlier -- have stayed prices well above most companies ' expectations .
demand has been much stronger than anticipated , and typically accelerate it in the fourth quarter .
said bryan jacoboski , an analyst at painewebber inc `` could see we higher oil prices this year , '' .
will translate that into sharply higher production profits , particularly compared with last year when steadily fell oil prices to below $ 13 a barrel in the fourth quarter .
in the third quarter , averaged they about 5 % less than they were in 1988 .
remain the main reason weather .
was last summer notable for a heat wave and drought that caused utilities to burn more natural gas to feed increased electrical demand from air conditioning use .
on the other hand , had this summer , milder weather than usual .
said mr. cox , phillips 's president `` we 've been very disappointed in the performance of natural gas prices , '' .
`` is not going the lagging gas price to assist fourth quarter performance as had expected many '' .
going into the fourth quarter , is natural gas prices anywhere from 8 % to 17 % lower than a year earlier .
for instance , is selling down 13 % from $ 1.69 a thousand cubic feet a year ago natural gas currently produced along the gulf coast on the spot market for around $ 1.47 a thousand cubic feet , .
trying to blunt growing demands from western europe for a relaxation of controls on exports to the soviet bloc , is questioning the bush administration , whether supplied italy 's ing . c. olivetti & co. militarily valuable technology to the soviets .
are expected most of the western european members of coordinating committee on multilateral export controls , the unofficial forum through which align the u.s. and its allies their export-control policies , to argue for more liberal export rules at a meeting to be held in paris oct. 25 and 26 .
plan they to press specifically for a relaxation of rules governing exports of machine tools , computers and other high-technology products .
but say the bush administration want it to see evidence that is complying fully all cocom members with existing export-control procedures before will support it further liberalization .
to make its point , is challenging it the italian government to explain reports that may have supplied olivetti with sophisticated computer-driven devices that could be used to build parts for combat aircraft the soviet union .
cited the london sunday times , which first reported the u.s. concerns , a u.s. intelligence report as the source of the allegations that exported olivetti $ 25 million in `` embargoed , state-of-the-art , flexible manufacturing systems '' to the soviet aviation industry .
reportedly began olivetti shipping these tools in 1984 .
acknowledged a state department spokesman that is discussing the u.s. the allegations with the italian government and cocom , but declined to confirm any details .
promised italian president francesco cossiga a quick investigation into whether broke olivetti cocom rules .
called president bush his attention to the matter during the italian leader 's visit here last week .
have denied olivetti that violated it cocom rules , asserting that was properly licensed the reported shipments by the italian authorities .
although is the legality of these sales still an open question , could n't be better timed the disclosure to support the position of export-control hawks in the pentagon and the intelligence community .
said a washington lobbyist for a number of u.s. computer companies `` seem it that break a story like this just before every important cocom meeting , to me '' .
have sent the bush administration conflicting signals about its export-control policies , reflecting unhealed divisions among several competing agencies .
last summer , moved mr. bush the administration in the direction of gradual liberalization when told he a north atlantic treaty organization meeting that would allow he some exceptions to the cocom embargo of strategic goods .
but more recently , openly feuded the pentagon and the commerce department over the extent to which should liberalize cocom exports of personal computers to the bloc .
however , generally agree these agencies that the west should be cautious about any further liberalization .
said a state department spokesman `` there be no evidence that have diminished the soviet program ( illegally ) to acquire western technology , '' .
announced salomon brothers international ltd. , a british subsidiary of salomon inc. , will issue it warrants on shares of hong kong telecommunications ltd .
closely follow the move a similar offer by salomon of warrants for shares of hongkong & shanghai banking corp .
will be priced the 50 million warrants at hk$ 1.25 each and are expected to carry a premium to the share price of about 26 % .
in trading on the stock exchange of hong kong , closed the shares wednesday at hk$ 4.80 each .
at this price , would have the shares to rise above hk$ 6.05 for to profitably convert subscribers to salomon 's issue their warrants .
while in the past have issued hong kong companies warrants on their own shares , is salomon 's warrants the first here to be issued by a third party .
`` will cover salomon the warrants '' by buying sufficient shares , or options to purchase shares , to cover its entire position .
said bankers is warrants for hong kong stocks attractive because give they an opportunity to buy shares without taking too great a risk foreign investors , wary of volatility in the colony 's stock market , .
the hong kong telecommunications warrants should be attractive to buyers in europe , added the bankers , because is the group one of a handful of blue-chip stocks on the hong kong market that have international appeal .
filed financial corp. of santa barbara suit against former stock speculator ivan f. boesky and drexel burnham lambert inc. , charging defrauded they the thrift by concealing their relationship when persuading it to buy $ 284 million in high-yield , high-risk junk bonds .
in a suit filed in federal court thursday , alleged the s&l that declined a `` disproportionate number '' of the bonds purchased it in 1984 in value .
purchased financial corp. the bonds , alleged the suit , after negotiated mr. boesky and drexel an agreement for to purchase vagabond hotels a 51 % stake in the thrift for about $ 34 million .
was controlled vagabond hotels by mr. boesky , who currently is serving a prison term for securities violations .
said officials at drexel had n't seen they the suit and thus could n't comment .
in addition to $ 33 million compensatory damages , seek the suit $ 100 million in punitive damages .
also named is ivan f. boesky corp. and northview corp. , the successor company to vagabonds hotels in the suit .
could n't be located northview officials .
said financial corp. agreed it to buy the bonds after visited a representative of ivan f. boesky corp. it in november 1983 and said could improve financial corp. its financial condition by purchasing the bonds .
shortly before the visit , had met mr. boesky and drexel representives with financial corp. officials and had signed a letter of intent to acquire the 51 % stake in the company .
however , was canceled the agreement in june 1984 .
said the company purchased financial corp. the bonds in at least 70 different transactions in 1984 and since then has realized $ 11 million in losses on them , .
said ideal basic industries inc. reached its directors an agreement in principle calling for to combine hofi north america inc. in a transaction that will leave ideal 's minority shareholders with 12.8 % of the combined company its north american cement holdings with ideal .
previously proposed hofi , the north american holding company of swiss concern holderbank financiere glaris ltd. , combining its 100 % stake in st. lawrence cement inc. and its 60 % stake in dundee cement co. with its 67 % stake in ideal .
but would have given hofi 's first offer about 10 % of the combined company ideal 's other shareholders .
rejected ideal 's directors that offer , although said they endorsed they the merger proposal .
under the agreement , will own hofi 87.2 % of the combined company .
will represent ideal 's current operations about 39.2 % of the combined company .
is the transaction subject to a definitive agreement and approval by ideal shareholders .
said ideal expect it to complete the transaction early next year .
while have slumped corn and soybean prices well below their drought-induced peaks of 1988 , remain wheat prices stubbornly high .
say analysts and be they likely to stay that way for months to come , .
say the analysts for one thing , with even planting many farmers more winter wheat this year than last , is tight wheat supplies likely to support prices well into 1990 , .
and if do n't fall soon rain across many of the great plains ' wheat-growing areas , could be reduced yields in the crop now being planted further squeezing supplies , .
also supporting is expectations that will place the soviet union substantial buying orders over the next few months prices .
by next may 31 , is projected stocks of u.s. wheat to be carried over into the next season -- before is harvested the winter wheat now being planted -- to drop to 443 million bushels .
was stocks 698 million bushels on may 31 of this year .
in response to dwindling domestic supplies , last month said agriculture secretary clayton yeutter would slightly increase the u.s. government the number of acres can plant farmers in wheat for next year and still qualify for federal support payments .
estimate the government that will boost the new plan production next year by about 66 million bushels .
now estimate it production for next year at just under 2.6 billion bushels , compared with this year 's estimated 2.04 billion and a drought-stunted 1.81 billion in 1988 .
but wo n't be felt the full effect on prices of the winter wheat now being planted until the second half of next year .
say analysts until then , is limited stocks likely to keep prices near the $ 4-a-bushel level , .
on the chicago board of trade friday , settled wheat for december delivery at $ 4.0675 a bushel , unchanged .
said daniel basse , a futures analyst with agresource co. in chicago in theory at least , could leave tight supplies next spring the wheat futures market susceptible to a supply-demand squeeze , .
can wreak such a situation havoc , as was shown by the emergency that developed in soybean futures trading this summer on the chicago board of trade .
in july , ordered the cbot ferruzzi finanziaria s.p . a. to liquidate futures positions equal to about 23 million bushels of soybeans .
said the exchange feared it that some members would n't be able to find enough soybeans to deliver and would have to default on their contractual obligation to the italian conglomerate , which had refused requests to reduce its holdings .
have denied ferruzzi was trying it to manipulate the soybean futures market .
said conrad leslie , a futures analyst and head of leslie analytical in chicago is threatening unseasonably hot , dry weather across large portions of the great plains and in wheat-growing areas in washington and oregon to reduce the yield from this season 's winter wheat crop , .
for example , in the oklahoma panhandle , is 40 % or more of the topsoil short of moisture .
said he climb that figure to about 47 % in wheat-growing portions of kansas , .
have n't given the soviet union any clear indication of its wheat purchase plans , but expect many analysts moscow to place sizable orders for u.s. wheat in the next few months , further supporting prices .
predicted richard feltes , vice president , research , for refco inc. in chicago `` will increasingly pivot wheat prices off of soviet demand '' in coming weeks , .
will be watching orange juice traders to see how long and how far will go the price decline that began friday .
thursday , after the close of trading , late received the market what would normally have been a bullish u.s. department of agriculture estimate of the 1989-90 florida orange crop .
was it near the low range of estimates , at 130 million 90-pound boxes , compared with 146.6 million boxes last season .
as expected , however , waited brazil for to come out the crop estimate and then cut the export price of its juice concentrate to about $ 1.34 a pound from around $ 1.55 .
erased friday 's consequent selling of futures contracts might have had the u.s. report whatever supportive effect and sent down as much as 6.55 cents a pound the november orange juice contract at one time .
settled it with a loss of 4.95 cents at $ 1.3210 a pound .
after a delay caused by drought at the start of its crop season , is beginning brazilian juice , to arrive in the u.s. in large quantities .
want brazil to stimulate demand for its product , which is going to be in plentiful supply .
said one analyst , appeared the price cut , to be aimed even more at europe , where have fallen consumption of brazilian juice .
said the analyst be it a dollar-priced product , and have made the strong dollar it more expensive in europe , .
have dropped significantly new york futures prices from more than $ 2 a pound at midyear .
said the analyst barring a cold snap or other crop problems in the growing areas , is downward pressure on prices likely to continue into january , when reach harvesting and processing of oranges in florida their peak , .
although look some analysts for profit-taking in the wake of friday 's leap in crude oil prices , is generally expected last week 's rally to continue this week .
said william hinton , an energy futures broker with stotler & co `` would continue i to look for a stable crude market , at least in futures trading , '' .
capped friday a week of steadily rising crude oil prices in both futures and spot markets .
on the new york mercantile exchange , finished up 42 cents on the day west texas intermediate crude for november delivery at $ 20.89 a barrel , .
on european markets , meanwhile , was up 35 to 75 cents a barrel spot prices of north sea crudes .
said nauman barakat , a first vice president at shearson lehman hutton inc `` still want this market to go higher , '' .
predicted he that will reach the november contract $ 21.50 a barrel or more on the new york mercantile exchange .
generally cite analysts a lack of bearish developments as well as rumors of a possible tightening of supplies of some fuels and crudes .
there also is recurring reports that is having the soviet union difficulties with its oil exports and that have about reached nigeria its production limit and ca n't produce as much as could sell it .
foresee many traders a tightening of near-term supplies , particularly of high-quality crudes such as those produced in the north sea and in nigeria .
said an official close to the company if emerge a hostile predator for saatchi & saatchi co. , will lead co-founders charles and maurice saatchi a management buy-out attempt , .
last week , said saatchi 's largest shareholder , southeastern asset management , had been approached it by one or more third parties interested in a possible restructuring .
and said carl spielvogel , chief executive officer of saatchi 's big backer spielvogel bates advertising unit , had offered he to lead a management buy-out of the company , but was rebuffed by charles saatchi .
said mr. spielvogel would n't launch he a hostile bid .
said the executive close to saatchi & saatchi that `` if came up a bidder with a ludicrously high offer , a crazy offer which knew saatchi could n't beat it , would have it no choice but to recommend it to shareholders .
but -lcb- otherwise -rcb- would undoubtedly come back it '' with an offer by management .
said the executive would be led any buy-out by the current board , is whose chairman maurice saatchi and is believed whose strategic guiding force to be charles saatchi .
is mr. spielvogel n't part of the board , nor are any of the other heads of saatchi 's big u.s.-based ad agencies .
did n't name the executive any price , but have said securities analysts would fetch saatchi upward of $ 1.3 billion .
denied the executive speculation that was bringing in saatchi the new chief executive officer only to clean up financially the company so that could lead the brothers a buy-back .
abounded that speculation friday as analyzed industry executives the appointment of the new chief executive , robert louis-dreyfus , who join saatchi and become a member of its board on jan. 1 .
have mr. louis-dreyfus , formerly chief executive of the pharmaceutical research firm ims international inc. , a reputation as a savvy financial manager , and will be charged with largely repairing saatchi 's poor financial state .
asked about the speculation that have been hired mr. louis-dreyfus to pave the way for a buy-out by the brothers , replied the executive `` is that n't the reason have been brought in dreyfus , .
was brought in he to turn around the company '' .
separately , said several saatchi agency clients believe they will have the company 's management shakeup little affect on them .
said a spokeswoman for miller brewing co. , a major client of backer spielvogel `` have n't had it any impact on us , nor do expect we it to , '' .
said john lampe , director of advertising at painewebber inc. , a saatchi & saatchi advertising client , `` have we no problem with the announcement , because do n't know we be going it what change to bring about : .
is n't going we to change agencies because of a change in london '' .
also said executives at backer spielvogel client avis inc. , as well as at saatchi client philips lighting co. , saw they no effect .
declined executives at prudential-bache securities inc. , a backer spielvogel client that is reviewing its account , comment .
had said mr. spielvogel that was prepared prudential-bache to finance either a management buy-out and restructuring , or a buy-out of backer spielvogel alone , led by him .
awarded california 's glendale federal bank its $ 12 million to $ 15 million account to the los angeles office of omnicom group 's bbdo agency .
was previously handled the account by davis , ball & colombatto advertising inc. , a los angeles agency .
have ended royal crown cola co. its relationship with the boston office of hill , holliday , connors , cosmopulos .
had billed the account about $ 6 million in 1988 , according to leading national advertisers .
as expected , pleaded young & rubicam inc. along with two senior executives and a former employee , not guilty in federal court in new haven , conn. , to conspiracy and racketeering charges .
have charged the government that bribed they jamaican officials to win the jamaica tourist board ad account in 1981 .
said a spokesman for the u.s. attorney 's office `` is just beginning extradition proceedings '' for the other two defendants in the case , eric anthony abrahams , former jamaican tourism minister , and jamaican businessman arnold foote jr .
agreed the samsung group and bozell inc. to establish a joint venture advertising agency in south korea .
will be based bozell cheil corp. , as will be called the new agency , in seoul and is owned 70 % by samsung and owned 30 % by bozell .
already own samsung korea first advertising co. , that country 's largest agency .
join bozell backer spielvogel bates and ogilvy group as u.s. agencies with interests in korean agencies .
citing a payment from a supplier and strong sales of certain data-storage products , said maxtor corp. jumped earnings and revenue in its second quarter ended sept. 24 .
said the maker of computer-data-storage products rose net income to $ 4.8 million , or 23 cents a share , from year-earlier net of $ 1.1 million , or five cents a share .
soared revenue to $ 117 million from $ 81.5 million .
said maxtor was boosted its results by $ 2 million in payments received from a supplier , for a certain line of products is n't going maxtor that to sell anymore .
said maxtor may have effects from discontinuing the line a positive effect on future earnings and revenue .
would n't elaborate a spokeswoman , but said the company the discontinued product has never been a major source of revenue or profit .
operationally , benefited maxtor from robust sales of products that store data for high-end personal computers and computer workstations .
in the fiscal first half , was net $ 7 million , or 34 cents a share , up from the year-earlier $ 3.1 million , or 15 cents a share .
rose revenue to $ 225.5 million from $ 161.8 million .
was elected robert g. walden , 62 years old , a director of this provider of advanced technology systems and services , increasing the board to eight members .
retired he as senior vice president , finance and administration , and chief financial officer of the company oct. 1 .
said southmark corp. that filed it part of its 10-k report with the securities and exchange commission , but that do n't include the filing its audited financial statements and related information .
operating under bankruptcy-law proceedings , said the real estate and thrift concern , told it the sec could n't provide it financial statements by the end of its first extension `` without unreasonable burden or expense '' .
asked the company for a 15-day extension sept. 30 , when was the financial reports due .
said southmark plan it to amend as soon as is completed its audit its 10k to provide financial results .
was named alan seelenfreund , 52 years old , chairman of this processor of prescription claims , succeeding thomas w. field jr. , 55 , who resigned last month .
is mr. seelenfreund executive vice president and chief financial officer of mckesson and will continue in those roles .
also named pcs rex r. malson , 57 , executive vice president at mckesson , as a director , filling the seat vacated by mr. field .
is messrs. malson and seelenfreund directors of mckesson , which have an 86 % stake in pcs .
said medchem products inc. ruled a u.s. district court in boston that was a challenge by medchem to the validity of a u.s. patent held by pharmacia inc. `` without merit '' .
had charged pharmacia , based in upsala , sweden , that infringe medchem 's amvisc product line on the pharmacia patent in a lawsuit against medchem .
is related the patent to hyaluronic acid , a rooster-comb extract used in eye surgery .
in its lawsuit , is seeking pharmacia unspecified damages and a preliminary injunction to block medchem from selling the amvisc products .
said a medchem spokesman contribute the products about a third of medchem 's sales and 10 % to 20 % of its earnings .
in the year ended aug. 31 , 1988 , earned medchem $ 2.9 million , or 72 cents a share , on sales of $ 17.4 million .
said medchem was issued the court 's ruling as part of a `` first-phase trial '' in the patent-infringement proceedings and concern only one of its defenses in the case .
said it is considering it `` all of its options '' in light of the decision , including a possible appeal .
added the medical-products company that plan it `` to assert its other defenses against pharmacia 's lawsuit , including the claim that have n't infringed it on pharmacia 's patent '' .
said medchem that scheduled the court a conference for next monday -- to set a date for proceedings on pharmacia 's motion for a preliminary injunction .
is reporting newspaper publishers mixed third-quarter results , aided by favorable newsprint prices and hampered by flat or declining advertising linage , especially in the northeast .
adding to unsteadiness in the industry , have been upset seasonal retail ad spending patterns in newspapers by shifts in ownership and general hardships within the retail industry .
in new york , have filed the bonwit teller and b. altman & co. department stores for protection from creditors under chapter 11 of the federal bankruptcy code , while is the r.h. macy & co. , bloomingdale 's and saks fifth avenue department-store chains for sale .
is also faced many papers throughout the country with a slowdown in classified-ad spending , a booming category for newspapers in recent years .
until recently , believed industry analysts had bottomed out decreases in retail ad spending and in fact would increase in this year 's third and fourth quarters .
is all bets off , say analysts , because of the shifting ownership of the retail chains .
said edward j. atorino , industry analyst for salomon brothers inc `` will help improved paper prices offset weakness in linage , but have affected the retailers ' problems the amount of ad linage usually run they , '' .
`` is retailers just in disarray . ''
for instance , posted gannett co. an 11 % gain in net income , as dropped total ad pages at usa today , but rose advertising revenue because of a higher circulation rate base and increased rates .
reported gannett 's 83 daily and 35 non-daily newspapers a 3 % increase in advertising and circulation revenue .
said john curley , gannett 's chief executive officer was total advertising linage `` modestly '' lower as increased classified-ad volume , while there was `` softer demand '' for retail and national ad linage , .
at usa today , totaled down 9.2 % from the 1988 period , which was helped by increased ad spending from the summer olympics ad pages 785 for the quarter , .
while totaled usa today 's total paid ad pages for the year to date 2,735 , a decrease of 4 % from last year , increased the paper 's ad revenue 8 % in the quarter and 13 % in the nine months .
in the nine months , rose gannett 's net 9.5 % to $ 270 million , or $ 1.68 a share , from $ 247 million , or $ 1.52 a share .
gained revenue 6 % to $ 2.55 billion from $ 2.4 billion .
at dow jones & co. , fell third-quarter net income 9.9 % from the year-earlier period .
fell net to $ 28.8 million , or 29 cents a share , from $ 32 million , or 33 cents a share .
included the year-earlier period a one-time gain of $ 3.5 million , or four cents a share .
gained revenue 5.3 % to $ 404.1 million from $ 383.8 million .
reflected the drop in profit continued softness in financial advertising at the wall street journal and barron 's magazine , in part , .
fell ad linage at the journal 6.1 % in the third quarter .
reversed affiliated publications inc. a year-earlier third quarter net loss .
reported the publisher of the boston globe net of $ 8.5 million , or 12 cents a share , compared with a loss of $ 26.5 million , or 38 cents a share , for the third quarter in 1988 .
said william o. taylor , the parent 's chairman and chief executive officer , continued earnings to be hurt by softness in ad volume at the boston newspaper .
is being strongly affected third-quarter profit estimates for several companies by the price of newsprint , which in the last two years have had several price increases .
after caused a supply crunch prices to rise 14 % since 1986 to $ 650 a metric ton , is analysts encouraged , because do n't expect they a price increase for the rest of this year .
will need companies with daily newspapers in the northeast the stable newsprint prices to ease damage from weak ad linage .
said mr. atorino at salomon brothers estimate he that was times mirror co. 's earnings down for the third quarter , because of soft advertising levels at its long island newsday and hartford courant newspapers .
was likely offset trouble on the east coast by improved ad linage at the los angeles times , which this week also unveiled a redesign .
is expected new york times co. to report lower earnings for the third quarter because of continued weak advertising levels at its flagship new york times and deep discounting of newsprint at its affiliate , forest products group .
said alan kassan , an analyst with shearson lehman hutton `` is holding up well , times co. 's regional daily newspapers but there is little sign that will improve things in the new york market , '' .
is expected washington post co. to report improved earnings , largely because of increased cable revenue and publishing revenue helped by an improved retail market in the washington area .
according to analysts , was also helped profits by successful cost-cutting measures at newsweek .
have faced the news-weekly heightened competition from rival time magazine and a relatively flat magazine advertising market .
is faced knight-ridder inc. with continued uncertainty over the pending joint operating agreement between its detroit free press and gannett 's detroit news , and have told analysts that was earnings down in the third quarter .
however , point analysts to positive advertising spending at several of its major daily newspapers , such as the miami herald and san jose mercury news .
said bruce thorp , an analyst for provident national bank `` is coming back strong the miami market after a tough couple of years `` when was starting up knight-ridder a hispanic edition and was falling circulation , '' '' .
in a series of moves that angered union officials in the u.s. and canada , have signaled general motors corp. , that may not survive as many as five north american assembly plants the mid-1990s as struggle the corporation to cut its excess vehicle-making capacity .
in announcements to workers late last week , effectively signed gm death notices for two full-sized van assembly plants , and cast serious doubt on the futures of three u.s. car factories .
is gm under intense pressure to close factories that became unprofitable as skidded the giant auto maker 's u.s. market share during the past decade .
currently using about 80 % of its north american vehicle capacity , have vowed the company , will run it at 100 % of capacity by 1992 .
just a month ago , announced gm would make it an aging assembly plant in lakewood , ga. , the eighth u.s. assembly facility to close since 1987 .
now , appear gm to be stepping up the pace of its factory consolidation to get in shape for the 1990s .
is one reason mounting competition from new japanese car plants in the u.s. that is pouring out more than one million vehicles a year at costs lower than can match gm .
is another that have signaled united auto workers union officials want they tighter no-layoff provisions in the new big three national contract that will be negotiated next year .
want gm officials to get their strategy to reduce capacity and the work force in place before begin those talks .
however , is the problem , that is coming gm 's moves at a time when is trying uaw leaders to silence dissidents who charge is the union too passive in the face of gm layoffs .
against that backdrop , issued uaw vice president stephen p. yokich , who recently became head of the union 's gm department , a statement friday blasting gm 's `` flagrant insensitivity '' toward union members .
said mr. yokich showed the auto maker 's decision to let trickle out word of the latest shutdowns and product reassignments in separate communiques to the affected plants `` disarray '' and an `` inability or unwillingness to provide consistent information , '' .
told gm officials workers late last week of the following moves : will be consolidated production of full-sized vans into a single plant in flint , mich .
mean that probably will be shut down two plants -- one in scarborough , ontario , and the other in lordstown , ohio -- after the end of 1991 .
will idle the shutdowns about 3,000 canadian assembly workers and about 2,500 workers in ohio .
used robert white , canadian auto workers union president , the impending scarborough shutdown to criticize the u.s.-canada free trade agreement and its champion , prime minister brian mulroney .
but may benefit canadian auto workers from a separate gm move that affect three u.s. car plants and one in quebec .
was told workers at plants in van nuys , calif. , oklahoma city and pontiac , mich. , being is no longer considered their facilities to build the next generation of the pontiac firebird and chevrolet camaro muscle cars .
said company and union officials is studying gm whether can build profitably it the new camaro-firebird at a plant in st. therese , quebec , .
left that announcement union officials in van nuys and oklahoma city uncertain about their futures .
do n't have the van nuys plant , which employ about 3,000 workers , a product to build after 1993 .
said jerry shrieves , uaw local president , was asked the facility to draw up plans to continue working as a `` flex plant , '' which could build several different types of products on short notice to satisfy demand .
said at the oklahoma city plant , which employ about 6,000 workers building the eight-year-old a-body mid-sized cars , steve featherston , uaw local vice president , have the plant lined up , no new product and `` know none of us when will die the a-body cars '' .
said he believe he have gm plans to keep building a-body cars into the mid-1990s .
at pontiac , however , appear the camaro-firebird decision to erase uaw hopes that would reopen gm the shuttered assembly plant that last built the plastic-bodied , two-seater pontiac fiero model .
was viewed the fiero plant as a model of union-management cooperation at gm before forced slow sales of the fiero the company to close the factory last year .
have taken politically union officials a beating as a result .
have used dissident uaw members the fiero plant as a symbol of labor-management cooperation 's failure .
said institut merieux s.a. of france raised the canadian government an obstacle to its proposed acquisition of connaught biosciences inc. for 942 million canadian dollars ( us$ 801.6 million ) .
said merieux told the government 's minister of industry , science and technology it that was he n't convinced that is the purchase likely to be of `` net benefit '' to canada .
require canadian investment rules that meet big foreign takeovers that standard .
said the french company gave the government 30 days in which to submit information to further support its takeover plan it .
is both merieux and connaught biotechnology research and vaccine manufacturing concerns .
was the government 's action unusual .
said alan nymark , executive vice president of investment canada , which oversee foreign takeovers , marked it the first time in its four-year history that have made the agency an adverse net-benefit decision about the acquisition of a publicly traded company .
said he have reached it the same conclusions about some attempts to buy closely held concerns , but eventually allowed those acquisitions to proceed .
said jodi redmond , press secretary for harvie andre , canada 's minister of industry , science and technology `` is this n't a change in government policy ; have been used before , this provision '' .
issued mr. andre the ruling based on a recommendation by investment canada .
said spokesmen for merieux and connaught had n't been informed they of specific areas of concern by either the government or investment canada , but added hope they to have more information early this week .
declined investment canada to comment on the reasons for the government decision .
said viren mehta , a partner with mehta & isaly , a new york-based pharmaceutical industry research firm , was the government 's ruling n't unexpected .
said mr. mehta `` have become this a very politicized deal , concerning canada 's only large , world-class bio-research or pharmaceutical company , '' .
said mr. mehta the move that could allow the transaction to go ahead as planned could be an out-of-court settlement of connaught 's dispute with the university of toronto .
is seeking the university to block the acquisition of connaught by foreign interests , citing concerns about the amount of research that would be done in canada .
is considering the university a settlement proposal made by connaught .
while will disclose neither side its contents , expect mr. mehta it to contain more specific guarantees on research and development spending levels in canada than offered merieux to investment canada .
believe some analysts , such as murray grossner of toronto-based richardson greenshields inc. , leave the government ruling the door open for other bidders , such as switzerland 's ciba-geigy and chiron corp. of emeryville , calif .
could n't be reached officials for the two concerns , which is bidding c$ 30 a share for connaught , for comment .
hold french state-owned rhone-poulenc s.a. 51 % of merieux .
said weatherford international inc. canceled it plans for a preferred-stock swap but may resume payment of dividends on the stock , and added that expect it to publicly offer about 10 million common shares .
said the company planned it to offer an undetermined number of common shares in exchange for the 585,000 shares of its preferred stock outstanding .
was never established the exchange ratio .
said weatherford led market conditions to the cancellation of the planned exchange .
said however , the energy-services concern that in january 1990 , may resume it payments of dividends on the preferred stock , .
suspended weatherford its preferred-dividend payment in october 1985 and said have n't it any plans to catch up on dividends in arrears about $ 6 million , but will do so some time in the future .
additionally , said the company filed it with the securities and exchange commission for the proposed offering of 10 million shares of common stock , expected to be offered in november .
said the company was granted salomon brothers inc. and howard , weil , labouisse , friedrichs inc. , underwriters for the offering , an option to buy as much as an additional 1.5 million shares to cover over-allotments .
will be used proceeds to eliminate bank debt and restructure .
currently have weatherford approximately 11.1 million common shares outstanding .
is believed earnings for most of the nation 's major pharmaceutical makers to have moved ahead briskly in the third quarter , as fared especially well companies with newer , big-selling prescription drugs .
said analysts that all benefited merck & co. , eli lilly & co. , warner-lambert co. and the squibb corp. unit of bristol-myers squibb co. from strong sales of relatively new , higher-priced medicines that provide wide profit margins .
was attributed less robust earnings at pfizer inc. and upjohn co. to those companies ' older products , face many of which stiffening competition from generic drugs and other medicines .
said joseph riccardo , an analyst with bear , stearns & co. , that over the past few years have shed most drug makers their slow-growing businesses and instituted other cost savings , such as consolidating manufacturing plants and administrative staffs .
said mr. riccardo as a result , `` is having major new products significant impact , even on a company with very large revenues , '' .
said analysts is estimated profit for the dozen or so big drug makers , as a group , to have climbed between 11 % and 14 % .
while be that not spectacular , said neil sweig , an analyst with prudential bache , that `` will look the rate of growth especially good as compared to other companies if turn downward the economy '' .
estimated mr. sweig that rose merck 's profit for the quarter by about 22 % , propelled by sales of its line-up of fast-growing prescription drugs , including its anti-cholesterol drug , mevacor ; a high blood pressure medicine , vasotec ; primaxin , an antibiotic , and pepcid , an anti-ulcer medication .
said mr. sweig climbed profit though even was reduced merck 's sales by `` one to three percentage points '' as a result of the strong dollar , .
in the third quarter of 1988 , earned merck $ 311.8 million , or 79 cents a share .
in rahway , n.j. , said a merck spokesman do n't make the company earnings projections .
said mr. sweig estimated he that jumped lilly 's earnings for the quarter about 20 % , largely because of the performance of its new anti-depressant prozac .
is expected the drug , introduced last year , to generate sales of about $ 300 million this year .
said mr. sweig `` be turning out it to be a real blockbuster , '' .
in last year 's third quarter , earned lilly $ 171.4 million , or $ 1.20 a share .
in indianapolis , declined lilly comment .
said several analysts expected they warner-lambert 's profit also to increase by more than 20 % from $ 87.7 million , or $ 1.25 a share , reported it in the like period last year .
is praised the company by analysts for sharply lowering its costs in recent years and shedding numerous companies with low profit margins .
said analysts , allowed the company 's lean operation , sharp-rising sales from its cholesterol drug , lopid , to power earnings growth .
is expected lopid sales to be about $ 300 million this year , up from $ 190 million in 1988 .
in morris plains , n.j. , said a spokesman for the company is the analysts ' projections `` in the ballpark '' .
estimated to be about 18 % above the $ 123 million , or $ 1.25 a share , earned it in the third quarter of 1988 , by analysts was squibb 's profit , the result of especially strong sales of its capoten drug for treating high blood pressure and other heart disease .
was officially merged the company with bristol-myers co. earlier this month .
declined bristol-myers to comment .
said mr. riccardo of bear stearns that is schering-plough corp. 's expected profit rise of about 18 % to 20 % , and bristol-meyers 's expected profit increase of about 13 % because `` largely is really managed well those companies '' .
earned scheringplough $ 94.4 million , or 84 cents a share , while earned bristol-myers $ 232.3 million , or 81 cents a share , in the like period a year earlier .
in madison , n.j. , said a spokesman for schering-plough have the company `` no problems '' with the average estimate by a analysts that rose third-quarter earnings per share by about 19 % , to $ 1 .
said the spokesman expect the company to achieve the 20 % increase in full-year earnings per share , as projected it in the spring , .
meanwhile , said analysts continued pfizer 's recent string of lackluster quarterly performances , as was expected earnings in the quarter to decline by about 5 % .
have shrunk sales of pfizer 's important drugs , feldene for treating arthritis , and procardia , a heart medicine , because of increased competition .
said mr. sweig `` hurt too , the ( strong ) dollar pfizer a lot , '' .
in the third quarter last year , earned pfizer $ 216.8 million , or $ 1.29 a share .
in new york , declined the company comment .
said analysts expected they upjohn 's profit to be flat or rise by only about 2 % to 4 % as compared with $ 89.6 million , or 49 cents a share , earned a year ago it .
is upjohn 's biggest-selling drugs xanax , a tranquilizer , and halcion , a sedative .
have been hurt sales of both drugs by new state laws restricting the prescriptions of certain tranquilizing medicines and adverse publicity about the excessive use of the drugs .
said analysts also , is selling well the company 's hair-growing drug , rogaine , -- at about $ 125 million for the year , but have been reduced the company 's profit from the drug by upjohn 's expensive print and television campaigns for advertising , .
in kalamazoo , mich. , declined upjohn comment .
amid a crowd of crashing stocks , fell particularly hard relational technology inc. 's stock friday , dropping 23 % because was compounded its problems by disclosure of an unexpected loss for its fiscal first quarter .
said the database software company expect it a $ 2 million net loss for the fiscal first quarter ended sept. 30 .
said it had been expecting analysts a small profit for the period .
is expected revenue to be `` up modestly '' from the $ 26.5 million reported a year ago .
reported relational technology net income of $ 1.5 million , or 12 cents a share , in the year-earlier period .
said paul newton , president and chief executive officer `` while showed our international operations strong growth , was our domestic business substantially below expectations , '' .
said a spokesman is the company 's first quarter historically soft , and is experiencing computer companies in general slower sales .
said mr. newton accepted he the resignation of thomas wilson , vice president of corporate sales , and that have been reassigned his marketing responsibilities .
said the company was n't related mr. wilson 's resignation to the sales shortfall .
went relational technology public in may 1988 at $ 14 a share .
fell it $ 1.875 a share friday , to $ 6.25 , a new low , in over-the-counter trading .
was its high for the past year $ 16.375 a share .
in the previous quarter , earned the company $ 4.5 million , or 37 cents a share , on sales of $ 47.2 million .
have the bronx a wonderful botanical garden , a great zoo , its own charming little italy ( on arthur avenue ) and , of course , the yankees .
having been subjected to news footage of the devastated south bronx , however , look most people , the way tom wolfe 's sherman mccoy did in `` bonfire of the vanities '' at the borough -- as a wrong turn into hell .
but is laura cunningham 's bronx , her childhood bronx of the '50s , something else altogether .
in a lovely , novelistic memoir , `` sleeping arrangements '' ( knopf , 195 pages , $ 18.95 ) , remember she an exotic playground , peopled mainly by jewish eccentrics and the occasional catholic ( real oddballs like her sexpot friend , the hell-kitten diana , age five ) .
have ms. cunningham , a novelist and playwright , a vivid and dramatically outsized sense of recall .
transform she her `` bronx of the emotions , a place where is only relieved the flats of mediocrity by steep descents into hysteria '' into the `` babylonian bronx , '' a world simmering with sex and death and intrigue .
in the babylonian bronx , lived jewish working-class people in drab , soviet-style buildings `` glamorized '' with names like anamor towers ( after owners anna and morris snezak ) , was decorated whose lobbies and hallways with murals of ancient syrians and greeks , friezes of pompeii .
for ms. cunningham matched the architectural discombobulation the discrepancy felt she living in the anamor towers as a little girl : `` ... '' outwardly ordinary , inwardly ornate , owing all inspiration to heathen cultures .
sharp-witted and funny but never mean , be she a memorialist a bit like truman capote , if he 'd been jewish and female and less bitchy .
really was little lily , as call ms. cunningham herself in the book , n't ordinary .
was raised she by her mother , rosie , whom remember she as a loving liar , who realigned history to explain why did n't live lily 's father with them , for the first eight years , .
reinvented rosie this man , who may or may not have known about his child , as a war hero for lily 's benefit .
died rosie young and have remembered lily as a romantic figure , who did n't interfere much with her child 's education on the streets her .
seem the games played bronx children ( holding down kids and stripping them , for example ) tame by today 's crack standards , but make ms. cunningham all sound it like a great adventure .
write she `` without official knowledge of sex or death , flirted we with both , '' .
analyzed she families by their sleeping arrangements .
slept her friend susan , kept whose parents reminding her was she unwanted , on a narrow bed wedged into her parents ' bedroom , as though was she a temporary visitor .
was her friend diana 's father a professional thief ; did n't seem they to have any bedrooms at all .
maybe became lily so obsessed with where slept people and how because kept her own arrangements shifting .
when died rosie , moved in her uncles -- and let make her the sleeping and other household arrangements .
painted they the apartment orange , pink and white , according to her instructions .
with loving detail recall she her uncle gabe , an orthodox jew and song lyricist ( who rhymed river with liver in a love song ) ; and uncle len , a mysterious part-time investigator who looked like lincoln and carried a change of clothing in a manila envelope , like an `` undercover president on a good-will mission '' .
came honestly they by their strangeness .
excised lily 's grandmother , no cookie baker , the heads of disliked relatives from the family album , and lugged around her perennial work-in-progress , `` philosophy for women '' .
lose the book some momentum toward the end , when become lily more preoccupied with dating boys and less with her delightfully weird family .
also figure the bronx in bruce jay friedman 's latest novel , which flash back to the new york of the '50s .
but feel both the past and present worlds of `` the current climate '' ( atlantic monthly press , 200 pages , $ 18.95 ) cramped and static .
for his sixth novel , tried mr. friedman to resuscitate the protagonist of his 1972 work , `` about harry towns '' .
is harry now a 57-year-old writer , seem whose continuing flirtation with drugs and marginal types in hollywood and new york quaintly out-of-synch .
fondly remember harry the `` old '' days of the early '70s , when would take people like his friend travis a psychiatrist on a date to analyze what was doing wrong travis .
`` an l.a. solution , '' explain mr. friedman .
line by line mr. friedman 's weary cynicism can be amusing , especially when be riffing he on the hollywood social scheme -- the way size up , people each other immediately canceling the desperate ones who merely almost made it .
have avoided harry all that by living in a long island suburb with his wife , who 's so addicted to soap operas and mystery novels barely seem she to notice when disappear her husband for drug-seeking forays into manhattan .
but do n't take it too many lines to figure out harry .
be he a bore .
said gulf resources & chemical corp. agreed it to pay $ 1.5 million as part of an accord with the environmental protection agency regarding an environmental cleanup of a defunct smelter formerly operated the company in idaho .
in 1984 notified the epa gulf resources , which was a part-owner of the smelter , that was it potentially liable for sharing cleanup costs at the site under the federal superfund program .
is the 21-square-mile area contaminated with lead , zinc and other metals .
earlier this year proposed gulf resources a reorganization plan that would make it a unit of a bermuda concern , potentially exempting it from liability for the smelter 's cleanup costs .
said the company that as part of its agreement with the epa , `` made it certain voluntary undertakings with respect to intercorporate transactions entered into after the reorganization '' .
said the company , which issued a statement on the agreement late friday , that was previously provided $ 1 million of the payment for in its financial statements and that will be recognized $ 500,000 in its 1989 third-quarter statement .
said the company is the agreement and consent decree subject to court approval , .
added gulf resources that `` will seek it to recover equitable contribution from others for both the amount of the settlement and any other liabilities may incur it under the superfund law '' .
under the agreement , must give gulf 45 days ' advance written notice the u.s. government before issuing any dividends on common stock .
can not fall the company 's net worth below $ 185 million after is issued the dividends .
said lawrence r. mehl , gulf 's general counsel `` only become the terms of that agreement effective the date of gulf 's reorganization , which anticipate we will occur sometime in early 1990 , '' .
in addition , must give gulf 20 days ' advance written notice of any loans exceeding $ 50 million that is made to the bermuda-based holding company the government .
separately , said the company expect it to hold a special meeting for shareholders in early 1990 to vote on its proposed reorganization .
assuming that do n't head the market into a bottomless free fall , think some executives could prove friday 's action a harbinger of good news -- as a sign that may be abating the leveraged buy-out and takeover frenzy of recent years .
said john young , chairman of hewlett-packard co. , dropped whose shares $ 3.125 to $ 48.125 `` is this a reaction to artificial lbo valuations , rather than to any fundamentals , '' .
`` if get we rid of a lot of that nonsense , it will be a big plus . ''
were a few of the executives here for the fall meeting of the business council , a group that meet to discuss national issues , only too happy to personalize their criticism .
said rand araskog , chairman of itt corp. , dropped whose stock $ 3.375 `` wish people would do the government something about leveraged buy-outs , do something about takeovers , do something about donald trump , '' .
where 's the guy who can say ` is enough enough ' : '' ?
was the executives remarkably unperturbed by the plunge though even lopped it billions of dollars off the value of their companies -- and millions off their personal fortunes .
said kenneth olsen , digital equipment corp. president , who was leisurely strolling through the bright orange and yellow leaves of the mountains here after plunged his company 's shares $ 5.75 to close at $ 86.50 `` be not going i to worry about one day 's decline , '' .
`` did n't bother i calling anybody ; i did n't even turn on tv '' .
added john smale , took procter & gamble co. whose an $ 8.75 slide to close at $ 120.75 `` there has n't been any fundamental change in the economy , '' .
`` give the fact that happened two years ago this and there was a recovery some comfort that this wo n't be a problem people '' .
of course , often tend established corporate managements to applaud the setbacks of stock speculators and takeover artists .
indeed , was one chief executive who was downright delighted by friday 's events robert crandall , chairman of amr corp. , the parent of american airlines and the target of a takeover offer by mr. trump .
asked whether could help friday 's action avoid him being trumped by the new york real estate magnate , smiled broadly mr. crandall and said : `` no comment '' .
on friday morning , before the market 's sell-off , issued the business leaders a report predicting would grow the economy at roughly an inflation-adjusted 2 % annual rate , through next year , then accelerate anew in 1991 .
said lewis preston , chairman of j.p. morgan & co. and vice chairman of the business council projected of the 19 economists who worked on the business council forecast , only two periods of decline in the nation 's output over the next two years , and `` in both instances is the declines too modest to warrant the phrase recession , '' .
is also affecting the real estate slump that be pushing down the price of new york office space and housing the city 's retail real estate market .
in manhattan , sit once-desirable store sites vacant and newly constructed space has been slow to fill .
say retail real estate brokers is tenants reluctant to sign leases because of uncertainty about the local economy , turmoil in their own industries and a belief that have not yet hit rents bottom .
say faith consolo , senior vice president at garrick-aug associates store leasing inc `` there is an unbelievable amount of space available , '' .
there is up from a more typical range of 1,200 to 1,500 about 2,000 stores for rent , .
say she `` further confuse this retailers , '' .
`` wonder they should sign they a lease if is still coming down prices ?
in addition , say ms. consolo , usually can negotiate tenants to pay rents that are about one-quarter lower than landlords ' initial asking price .
and , in some neighborhoods , have merely hit rents a plateau .
say experts but on average , have dropped manhattan retail rents 10 % to 15 % in the past six months alone , .
follow that a more subtle decline in the prior six months , after had run up rapidly manhattan rents since 1986 .
have affected the same factors limiting demand for office space retailing .
say edward a. friedman , senior vice president of helmsley spear inc `` as contract businesses or depart , shrink the number of employees who might use retail services , '' .
say he have further deflated financial problems plaguing electronics , fur and furniture companies -- key categories in the local retail economy -- the market .
hardest hit are call he what `` secondary '' sites that primarily serve neighborhood residents .
in these locations , say mr. friedman , `` is retailers increasingly cautious about expanding and have remained rents steady or in some cases have declined . ''
exacerbate weakness in the restaurant industry , which is leaving retail space vacant , the problem for landlords .
is it also no comfort to landlords and small new york retailers when is the future of larger department stores , which anchor retail neighborhoods , in doubt .
is mired hooker corp. , parent of bonwit teller and b. altman 's , in bankruptcy proceedings and is bloomingdale 's for sale by its owner , campeau corp .
may seem the trend toward lower rents surprising given that is bemoaning some communities in new york the loss of favorite local businesses to high rents .
but , despite the recent softening , for many of these retailers there 's still been too big a jump from the rental rates of the late 1970s , when was signed their leases .
certainly , do n't mean the recent drop in prices come manhattan cheap .
still run new york retail rents well above the going rate in other u.s. cities .
can command madison and fifth avenues and east 57th street rents of up to $ 500 a square foot , and is $ 250 not uncommon .
offer the thriving 34th street area rents of about $ 100 a square foot , as do up-and-coming locations along lower fifth avenue .
by contrast , rarely top rentals in the best retail locations in boston , san francisco and chicago $ 100 a square foot .
and generally do n't exceed rents on beverly hills ' rodeo drive about $ 125 a square foot .
said the new york stock exchange will begin two securities trading this week .
will begin precision castparts corp. , portland , ore. , trading with the symbol pcp .
make it investment castings and has traded over-the-counter .
will list royal bank of scotland group plc , an edinburgh , scotland , financial services company , american depositary shares , representing preferred shares , with the symbol rbspr .
will continue it to trade on the international stock exchange , london .
listed the american stock exchange shares of two companies .
started aim telephones inc. , a parsippany , n.j. , telecommunications equipment supply company , trading with the symbol aim .
had traded it over-the-counter .
began columbia laboratories inc. , miami , trading with the symbol cob .
had traded the pharmaceuticals maker over-the-counter .
listed the national market system of the nasdaq over-the-counter market shares of one company .
was listed employee benefit plans inc. , a minneapolis health-care services company , with the symbol ebpi .
when mark justice william brennan the start of his 34th year on the supreme court today , will differ sharply the occasion from previous anniversaries of his tenure .
for the first time , find the 83-year-old justice his influence almost exclusively in dissent , rather than as a force in the high court 's majority .
hold as well , this role reversal true , for his three liberal and moderate allies , justices thurgood marshall , harry blackmun and john stevens .
but is these four players , three of them in their 80s , ready to assume a different role after 88 years , collectively , of service on the high court ?
is every indication that are the four prepared to accept this new role , and the frustrations that go with it , but in different ways .
appear justices brennan and stevens philosophical about it ; appear justices marshall and blackmun fighting mad .
is the four justices no newcomers to dissent , often joining forces in the past decade to criticize the court 's conservative drift .
but in years past , always , have bucked they the trend and have been able to pick up a fifth vote to eke out a number of major victories in civil rights and liberties cases .
now , however , as continue the court 's new five-member conservative majority to solidify , is victories for the liberals rare .
is the change most dramatic for justice brennan , the last survivor of the mid-1960s liberal majority under chief justice earl warren .
in the seven supreme court terms from the fall of 1962 through the spring of 1967 , the height of the warren court 's power , cast justice brennan only 25 dissenting votes in 555 cases decided by the court .
last term alone cast he 52 dissenting votes in 133 decisions , with the contentious flag-burning ruling as his only big victory .
but foresaw justice brennan his new role , strongly defending the importance of dissents in a 1985 speech .
said he `` each time revisit the court an issue , will be forced the justices to reconsider the fundamental questions and to rethink the result , by a dissent '' .
in recent months moreover , have said he that when was he on the winning side in the 1960s , knew he that might turn the tables in the future .
have said he that now know he how felt justice john harlan , a reference to the late conservative justice who was the most frequent dissenter from the warren court 's opinions .
say associates of 81-year-old justice marshall was he `` depressed '' about the court 's direction last spring , but is feisty about his role and determined to speak out against the court 's cutbacks in civil rights .
said he `` could sweep we it under the rug and hide it , but be not going i to do it , '' in a speech last month .
consider he , like justice brennan , dissents highly important for the future , a point have n't escaped that legal scholars .
say harvard law school professor laurence tribe there is a `` generation-skipping '' flavor to current dissents .
say he , appeared the dissenters in the warren court , to be writing for the short-term , suggesting that might change soon the court 's direction .
say he `` is speaking brennan and marshall in their dissents to a more distant future , '' .
also seem justice blackmun , who will turn 81 next month , feisty about his new role .
say associates take more personally than his colleagues , he some defeats especially attempts to curtail the right to abortion first recognized in his 1973 opinion , roe vs. wade .
said friends and associates who saw justice blackmun during the summer was he no more discouraged about the court than in recent years .
and improved his outlook after successful cataract surgery in august .
but showed his level of frustration in a recent , impassioned speech to a group of hundreds of lawyers in chicago .
concluded he his remarks by quoting emotionally and at some length , the late martin luther king 's famous `` have i a dream '' speech from the 1963 march on washington , according to those present , .
is justice stevens , 69 , probably the most philosophical of the dissenters about his role , in part because he may be the least liberal of the four , but also because enjoy more than the others he the intellectual challenge of arguing with the majority .
say court watchers if is the role is assuming these four dissenters a familiar one in modern supreme court history , also differ it in an important way from recent history , .
`` was often defending the dissenters of the warren court a legal legacy inherited they that , '' say prof. a.e. dick howard of the university of virginia law school , `` but is defending the dissenters today a legacy created they that .
sold the government the deposits of four savings-and-loan institutions , in its first wave of sales of big , sick thrifts , but prevented low bids the sale of a fifth .
was sold the four s&ls to large banks , as was the case with most of the 28 previous transactions initiated by the resolution trust corp. since was created two months ago it in the s&l bailout legislation .
were sold two of the four big thrifts to ncnb corp. , charlotte , n.c. , which have aggressively expanded its markets , particularly in texas and florida .
bought a canadian bank another thrift , in the first rtc transaction with a foreign bank .
under these deals , sell the rtc just the deposits and the healthy assets .
leave these `` clean-bank '' transactions the bulk of bad assets , mostly real estate , with the government , to be sold later .
in these four , for instance , is stuck the rtc with $ 4.51 billion in bad assets .
paid acquirers premiums ranging from 1.5 % to 3.7 % for the deposits and branch systems , roughly in line with what were expecting analysts .
will also be locked the buyers into deposit rates for just two weeks , as has been the case with previous deals .
after that , may repudiate the buyers the rates paid by the former thrifts .
but be it uncertain whether will take these institutions those steps .
ncnb , for example , has been one of the highest rate payers in the texas market , and in florida , is rates especially sensitive in retirement communities .
had previously targeted the rtc five thrifts for quick sales in order to spend cash by certain budgetary deadlines , but illustrate the delays the tough chore facing the agency .
said bert ely , an industry consultant based in alexandria , va `` is these thrifts beached whales , '' .
for example , have forced the delay in selling people 's heritage savings , salina , kan. , with $ 1.7 billion in assets , the rtc to consider selling off branch-by-branch , instead of as a whole institution the thrift .
continued ncnb its foray into the florida and texas markets .
will acquire ncnb university federal savings association , houston , which had assets of $ 2.8 billion .
will pay ncnb texas national bank a premium of $ 129 million the rtc for $ 3.5 billion in deposits .
as a measure of the depths to which have sunk the texas real estate market , will pay the rtc $ 3.8 billion to ncnb to take $ 750 million of bad assets .
also acquired ncnb freedom savings & loan association , tampa , fla. , which had total assets of $ 900 million .
will pay ncnb a premium of $ 40.4 million the rtc for $ 1.1 billion in deposits .
will also acquire ncnb from the rtc , which will require $ 875 million in assistance $ 266 million of freedom 's assets .
will acquire meridian bancorp inc. , reading , pa. , hill financial savings association , red hill , pa. , which had $ 2.3 billion in assets .
will pay meridian a premium of $ 30.5 million to assume $ 2 billion in deposits .
will also purchase it $ 845 million of the thrift 's assets , with $ 1.9 billion in rtc assistance .
in the first rtc transaction with a foreign buyer , will acquire royal trustco ltd. , toronto , pacific savings bank , costa mesa , calif. , which had $ 949 million in assets .
will pay royal trustco $ 25 million the rtc to assume $ 989 million in deposits .
will also purchase it $ 473 million in assets , and receive $ 550 million in assistance from the rtc .
was recently filed the following issues with the securities and exchange commission :
pacificare health systems inc. , proposed offering of 1.5 million common shares , of which will be offered 700,000 shares by pacificare and 800,000 shares by unihealth america inc . ( pacificare 's 71 % ) , via dillon , read & co. inc. , goldman , sachs & co. and dean witter reynolds inc .
in a move to reduce the costs of wooing new subscribers , is lowering time magazine , its circulation guarantee to advertisers for the second consecutive year , increasing its subscription rates and cutting back on merchandise giveaways .
in an announcement to its staff last week , said executives at time warner inc. 's weekly magazine `` will dramatically de-emphasize time its use of electronic giveaways such as telephones in television subscription drives '' ; cut the circulation guarantee it advertisers by 300,000 , to four million ; and increase the cost of its annual subscription rate by about $ 4 to $ 55 .
in a related development , for the fourth year in a row , said the news-weekly , wo n't increase it its advertising rates in 1990 ; cost a full , four-color page in the magazine about $ 120,000 .
however , because is being lowered the guaranteed circulation base , ad rates will be effectively 7.5 % higher per subscriber , according to richard heinemann , time associate publisher .
is following time the course of some other mass-circulation magazines in recent years have challenged that the publishing myth that maintaining artificially high , and expensive , circulations is the way to draw advertisers .
in recent years , have cut reader 's digest , new york times co. 's mccall 's , and most recently news corp. 's tv guide , their massive circulation rate bases to eliminate marginal circulation and hold down rates for advertisers .
have become deep discounts in subscriptions and offers of free clock radios and watches accepted forms of attracting new subscribers in the hyper-competitive world of magazine news-weeklies .
but as part of the more cost-conscious time warner , want time , to wean away itself from expensive gimmicks .
besides , think time executives selling a news magazine with a clock radio is tacky .
said mr. heinemann `` just give giveaways the wrong image , people '' .
`` take that perception the focus off the magazine '' .
predictably paint time magazine executives the circulation cut as a show of strength and actually a benefit to advertisers .
said mr. heinemann `` is what are doing we screening out the readers who are only casually related to the magazine and do n't really read it , '' .
`` is trying we to create quality and involvement '' .
however , used time executives the same explanation in october 1988 when cut the magazine its guaranteed circulation from 4.6 million to 4.3 million .
and according to audit bureau of circulations , dropped time 's paid circulation , 7.3 % to 4,393,237 in the six months ended june 30 , 1989 .
still , is being received well , once again time 's move .
said michael drexler , national media director at bozell inc. ad agency `` be it terrific for to know advertisers will be paying the reader more , '' .
`` is a few drops in circulation of no consequence .
be it not a show of weakness ; is improving they the quality of circulation while insuring their profits . ''
said mr. heinemann represent the changes a new focus in the magazine industry : a magazine 's net revenue per subscriber , or the actual revenue from subscribers after have been stripped away discounts and the cost of premiums .
said mr. heinemann `` is the question how much is getting we from each reader , '' .
is time 's rivals news-weeklies , washington post co. 's newsweek and u.s. news & world report , less reliant on electronic giveaways , and in recent years have been increasing both their circulation rate bases .
is expected both magazines to announce their ad rates and circulation levels for 1990 within a month .
when broke two weeks ago , the news of an attempted coup in panama called sen. christopher dodd the state department for a briefing .
' told he `` said they follow cnn , , ` '' reporters .
show that how far have come ted turner 's cable news network since its birth nine years ago , when was considered it the laughingstock of television news .
is it bigger , faster and more profitable than the news divisions of any of the three major broadcast networks .
draw its niche as the `` network of record '' during major crises elite audiences around the world .
but for all its success , have hit cnn a plateau .
although viewership soars when break big news , ebb it during periods of calm .
worry cnn executives that may be getting the network 's punchy but repetitive news format stale and wo n't keep coming back viewers as multiply the alternatives for news and information on cable-tv .
say ed turner , cnn 's executive vice president , news gathering ( and no relation to ted turner ) `` is just the fact be we on 24 hours no longer bulletin , '' .
so is trying cnn , a unit of atlanta-based turner broadcasting system inc. , to reposition itself as a primary channel , or call people in the television industry what a `` top of mind '' network .
tonight , to kick off the effort , will premiere cnn its first prime-time newscast in years , an hourlong show at 6 p.m . eastern time to air head-to-head against the network newscasts .
will be co-anchored the show by bernard shaw and catherine crier , a 34-year-old former texas judge and campus beauty queen who have never held a job in television or journalism .
is the new show perhaps the boldest in a number of steps is taking the network to build audience loyalty by shifting away from its current format toward more full-length `` signature '' programming with recognizable stars .
to distinguish itself , is also expanding cnn international coverage and adding a second global-news program .
is paying it higher salaries -- after years of scrimping -- to lure experienced staffers and keep .
and is embarking it on an expensive gamble to break major stories with a large investigative-reporting team .
says `` is the next stage to get beyond the opinion leaders who use us as a point of reference to become a point of reference at ordinary dinner tables , '' jon petrovich , executive vice president of headline news , cnn 's sister network .
like other consumer products , develop networks , images in peoples ' minds that are n't easy to change .
also take it money that cnn has been reluctant to spend to make programs and hire talent will tune in specially viewers that to see .
and the cable-tv operators -- cnn 's distributors and part owners -- like things just the way is they .
is aimed the repositioning bid at cnn 's unsteady viewership -- and what may happen to it as grows the cable-tv news market more competitive .
already , is facing cnn stronger competition from financial news network inc. and general electric co. 's consumer news and business channel , are both of which likely to pursue more general news in the future .
in addition , is airing many cable-tv systems themselves more local and regional news programs produced by local broadcast stations .
want cnn to change its viewers ' habits .
is its watchers , on the whole , a disloyal group of channel-zapping `` grazers '' and news junkies , who spend an average of just 26 minutes a day watching cnn , according to audience research .
be that less than one-third the time that watch viewers the major broadcast networks .
could put the brief attention give viewers cnn it at a disadvantage as become ratings data , and advertising , more important to cable-tv channels .
have been molded cnn 's viewer habits by its format .
have been its strategy in the past to serve as a tv wire service .
focused it as took events place so could go quicker and longer than other networks it live on building up its news bureaus around the world , .
filled it its daily schedule with newscasts called `` daybreak , '' `` daywatch , '' `` newsday , '' and `` newsnight , '' but varied the shows little in content , personality or look .
now , is the push on for more-distinctive shows .
say paul amos , cnn executive vice president for programming `` is our goal to create more programs with an individual identity , '' .
say mr. amos accordingly , is adding cnn a world-affairs show in the morning because show surveys is its global-news hour in the afternoon among its most `` differentiated '' programs in viewers ' minds , .
and is exploring it other original programs , similar to its `` larry king live '' and `` crossfire '' talk shows , which hope executives will keep tuned in people .
then there be `` the world today , '' the prime-time newscast featuring mr. shaw and ms. crier .
until now , have featured cnn its hollywood gossip show during the key evening period .
discovered the network but do so 70 % of the cable-television-equipped households that watch news between 6:30 p.m. and 7 p.m. , , so want in cnn .
say mr. amos will probably do the shaw-crier team two live interviews a day , with at least for now , appearing most of the program , similar to cnn 's other newcasts .
say reuven frank , the former two-time president of nbc news and creator of the huntley-brinkley report `` find i hard to conceive it of switching over people to cnn for at least in the public 's mind , what , is the same news , '' .
is also slated the evening news as cnn 's stage for its big push into investigative journalism .
in august , hired the network award-winning producer pamela hill , the former head of news specials at abc .
be assembling she a staff of about 35 investigative reporters who will produce weekly , in-depth segments , with an eye toward breaking big stories .
hope cnn executives will generate the headlines created by such scoops excitement for its `` branded '' programs , in the way did so well `` 60 minutes '' for cbs .
be that such a departure from the past that are many in the industry skeptical will follow through cnn with its investigative commitment , after especially see it the cost of producing in-depth pieces .
say michael mosettig , a senior producer with macneil-lehrer newshour , who notes that is cnn indispensable to his job `` have never shown they any inclination to spend money on production , '' .
have always ranged the network 's salaries resulting in a less-experienced work force far below industry standards , .
recently gave cnn raises of as much as 15 % , most employees but they 're still drastically underpaid compared with the networks .
say mr. mosettig `` is cnn my wire service ; be they on top of everything : .
but to improve , have really got they to make the investment in people '' .
in any case , have cable-tv-system operators reason to fear any tinkering with cnn 's format .
market they cable-tv on the very grazing opportunities seek cnn to discourage .
say robert stengel , senior vice president , programming , of continental cablevision inc. , which hold a 2 % stake in turner broadcasting `` would obviously be upset we if evolved those kinds of services into more general-interest , long-format programming , '' .
did not repudiate contrary to your sept. 8 article `` back too late court texaco 's view in pennzoil case -- '' the second u.s. circuit court of appeals opinion in the arcadian phosphate case the position took pennzoil co. in its dispute with texaco , .
was the fundamental rule of contract law applied to both cases that will not enforce courts agreements to which did not intend the parties to be bound .
in the pennzoil/texaco litigation , found the courts intended pennzoil and getty oil to be bound ; in arcadian phosphates found they there was no intention to be bound .
admittedly , is the principle in the cases the same .
but almost always turn the outcome of a legal dispute on the facts .
and as found by the various courts in these two lawsuits , was the facts , different .
said valley federal savings & loan association withdrew imperial corp. of america its application to buy five valley federal branches , from regulators leaving the transaction in limbo .
appear the broken purchase as additional evidence of trouble at imperial corp. , said whose spokesman withdrew the company its application from the federal office of thrift supervision because of an informal notice that failed imperial 's thrift unit to meet community reinvestment act requirements .
require the community reinvestment act savings and loan associations to lend money in amounts related to areas where is received deposits .
announced in august , included the transaction , about $ 146 million in deposits at the five outlets in california 's san joaquin valley .
was n't disclosed terms , but had said valley federal expected it to post a modest pretax gain and to save annually about $ 2 million in operating costs .
said valley federal that is considering it whether to seek another buyer for the branches or to pursue the transaction with imperial corp. , which said is attempting it to meet community reinvestment act requirements friday .
is based valley federal , with assets of $ 3.3 billion , in van nuys .
is imperial corp. , based in san diego , the parent of imperial savings & loan .
in the first six months of the year posted it a net loss of $ 33.1 million .
call it the `` be we too broke to fight '' defense .
is trying lawyers for dozens of insolvent savings and loan associations a new tack in their efforts to defuse suits filed by borrowers , developers and creditors .
claim the thrifts ' lawyers that should be dismissed the suits , numbering 700 to 1,000 in texas alone , as moot because have neither the s&ls nor the extinct federal savings and loan insurance corp. the money to pay judgments .
though may have the argument a common-sense ring to it , concede even the s&l lawyers there be little precedent to back their position .
still , have signaled one federal appeals court be it willing to entertain the notion , and have renewed the lawyers their arguments in texas and eight other states where is permitted the defense under state law .
could go the dismissal of the pending suits a long way toward clearing court dockets in texas and reducing the fslic 's massive legal bills , which topped $ 73 million last year .
was encouraged the s&l lawyers last month by an appellate-court ruling in two cases brought against defunct sunbelt savings & loan association of dallas by the developers of the valley ranch , best known as the training center for the dallas cowboys football team .
foreclosed sunbelt on the ranch .
argued sunbelt and the fslic `` that there will never be any assets with which to satisfy a judgment against sunbelt savings nor any means to collect from any other party , including fslic '' to the fifth u.s. circuit court of appeals .
`` if true , '' wrote the court , `` would justify this contention dismissal of these actions on prudential grounds '' .
but said the court lacked it enough financial information about sunbelt and the fslic and sent back to federal district court in dallas the cases .
say charles haworth , a lawyer for sunbelt , plan he to file a brief this week urging the district judge to dismiss the suits , because exceeded sunbelt 's liabilities its assets by about $ 2 billion when closed federal regulators it in august 1988 .
say mr. haworth , a partner in the dallas office of andrews & kurth , a houston law firm `` is this institution just brain dead , '' .
but dismiss a lawyer for triland investment group , the developer of valley ranch , such arguments as a `` defense du jour '' .
say attorney richard jackson of dallas a judgment for triland could be satisfied in ways other than a monetary award , including the reversal of sunbelt 's foreclosure on valley ranch .
say he `` be asking we the court for a number of things can grant he in addition to the thrill of victory , '' .
`` 'd take free and clear we the valley ranch as a booby prize .
resigned kenneth j. thygerson , who was named president of this thrift holding company in august , citing personal reasons , .
said mr. thygerson had planned he to travel between the job in denver and his san diego home , but has found the commute too difficult to continue .
was n't named a new president .
freed south africa the anc 's sisulu and seven other political prisoners .
brandishing many flags of the outlawed african national congress , gave thousands of supporters , a tumultuous reception the anti-apartheid activists upon their return to black townships across the country .
said the 77-year-old sisulu , sentenced along with black nationalist nelson mandela to life in 1964 for plotting to overthrow the government , was equality for blacks in south africa in reach .
was viewed the releases , announced last week by president de klerk , as pretoria 's tacit legalization of the anc .
remain mandela , considered the most prominent leader of the anc , in prison .
but is widely expected his release within the next few months .
reported the soviet union that was piled up thousands of tons of goods needed to ease widespread shortages across the nation at ports and rail depots , and was rotting food shipments because of a lack of people and equipment to move the cargo .
was cited strikes and mismanagement , and warned premier ryzhkov of `` tough measures '' .
indicated bush there might be `` room for flexibility '' in a bill to allow federal funding of abortions for poor women who are vicitims of rape and incest .
reiterated he his opposition to such funding , but expressed hope of a compromise .
at a news conference friday , also renewed the president , a call for the ouster of panama 's noriega .
said the white house have n't minors any right to abortion without the consent of their parents .
was stated the administration 's policy in a friend-of-the-court brief urging the supreme court to give more leeway to restrict abortions states .
announced the justice department that have been given the fbi the authority to seize overseas u.s. fugitives without the permission of foreign governments .
emphasized secretary of state baker that would n't be invoked the new policy by the bush administration without full consideration of foreign-policy implications friday .
pronounced nasa the space shuttle atlantis ready for launch tomorrow following a five-day postponement of the flight because of a faulty engine computer .
was replaced the device .
is the spacecraft 's five astronauts to dispatch the galileo space probe on an exploration mission to jupiter .
traveled south korea 's president roh for a five-day visit that is expected to focus on ties between washington and seoul to the u.s. .
is roh , who is facing calls for the reduction of u.s. military forces in south korea , to meet with bush tomorrow and is to address a joint session of congress on wednesday .
voted china 's communist leadership to purge the party of `` hostile and anti-party elements '' and wealthy private businessmen , called they whom exploiters .
reported by the official xinhua news agency , indicated the decision , that is intensifying the crackdown prompted by student-led pro-democracy protests in june .
flocked hundreds of east germans bringing the number of emigres expected to flee to the west beginning today to more than 1,200 to bonn 's embassy in warsaw , .
escaped more than 2,100 others to west germany through hungary over the weekend .
in leipzig , vowed activists to continue street protests to demand internal change .
met zaire 's president mobutu in southern france with angolan rebel leader savimbi and a senior u.s. envoy in a bid to revive an accord to end angola 's civil war .
was n't disclosed details of the talks , described by a zairean official as `` very delicate , '' .
insisted plo leader arafat on guarantees that any elections in the israeli-occupied territories would be impartial .
made he his remarks to a plo gathering in baghdad .
in the occupied lands , rejected underground leaders of the arab uprising a u.s. plan to arrange israeli-palestinian talks as opposed shamir holding such discussions in cairo .
presented lebanese christian lawmakers proposals for a new timetable for the withdrawal of syria 's forces from lebanon to arab mediators at talks in saudi arabia .
give a plan currently under study two years to pull back to eastern lebanon , starting from the time increase beirut 's legislature political power for moslems damascus .
threatened hurricane jerry to combine to swamp the texas-louisiana coast with the highest tides of the year .
was ordered thousands of residents of low-lying areas to evacuate as headed north the storm in the gulf of mexico with 80 mph winds .
said a group of arby 's franchisees formed they an association to oppose miami beach financier victor posner 's control of the restaurant chain .
is the decision the latest move in an escalating battle between the franchisees and mr. posner that began in august .
at the time , offered a group called r.b. partners ltd. , consisting of eight of arby 's largest franchisees , more than $ 200 million to buy arby 's inc. , which is part of dwg corp .
is dwg a holding company controlled by mr. posner .
one week later , was fired leonard h. roberts , president and chief executive officer of arby 's , in a dispute with mr. posner .
friday , announced 42 franchisees the formation of an association -- called a.p. association inc. -- `` to preserve the integrity of the arby 's system '' .
said the franchisees , owners or operators of 1,000 of the 1,900 franchised arby 's in the u.s. , `` have concluded we that is continued control of arby 's by victor posner totally unacceptable to us , because is it extremely likely to cause irreparable damage to the arby 's system : .
support we all efforts to remove victor posner from control of arby 's inc. and the arby 's system '' .
said the group would consider it withholding royalty payments and initiating a class-action lawsuit seeking court approval for the withholdings , among other things , .
in florida , responded renee mottram , a senior vice president at dwg , `` do n't think we should disrupt any individual or group a winning system or illegally interfere with existing contractual relationships for their own self-serving motives : .
show september 's steep rise in producer prices that still persist inflation , and contributed the pessimism over interest rates caused by the new price data to the stock market 's plunge friday .
after falling for three consecutive months , shot up the producer price index for finished goods 0.9 % last month , reported the labor department friday , as jumped energy prices after tumbling through the summer .
although did n't trigger the report , which was released before opened the stock market , the 190.58-point drop in the dow jones industrial average , said analysts did play it a role in the market 's decline .
immediately viewed analysts the price data , the grimmest inflation news in months , as evidence that was the federal reserve unlikely to allow interest rates to fall as had hoped many investors .
further fueling the belief that was pressures in the economy sufficient to keep the fed from easing credit , reported the commerce department that grew retail sales 0.5 % in september , to $ 145.21 billion friday .
came that rise on top of a 0.7 % gain in august , and suggested there is still healthy consumer demand in the economy .
said robert dederick , chief economist at northern trust co. in chicago `` think i weakened the friday report , combined with the actions of the fed , the belief that there was going to be an imminent easing of monetary policy , '' .
but was economists divided over the extent of the inflation threat signaled by the new numbers .
said gordon richards , an economist at the national association of manufacturers `` is the overall 0.9 % increase serious in itself , but is what is even worse that excluding food and energy , still increased the producer price index by 0.7 % , '' .
but blamed sung won sohn , chief economist at norwest corp. in minneapolis , rising energy prices and the annual autumn increase in car prices for most of the september jump .
said he `` would say i is this not bad news ; is this a blip , '' .
`` is not really out of line the core rate '' .
all year , have skewed energy prices the producer price index , which measure changes in the prices receive producers for goods .
unquestionably have fallen back from its torrid pace last winter , when sent a steep run-up in world oil prices surging the index at double-digit annual rates inflation .
then plummeted energy prices causing the index to decline for three consecutive months through the summer , .
said the labor department overall , have climbed the index at a 5.1 % compound annual rate since the start of the year , .
moreover , may have ended this year 's good inflation news last month , when zoomed up energy prices 6.5 % after plunging 7.3 % in august .
expect some analysts oil prices to remain relatively stable leaving the future pace of inflation uncertain in the months ahead , .
had expected analysts that would lead the climb in oil prices last month to a substantial rise in the producer price index , but was the 0.9 % climb higher than anticipated most .
said john mueller , chief economist at bell mueller cannon , a washington economic forecasting firm `` think i is going the resurgence -lcb- in inflation -rcb- to continue for a few months , '' .
predicted he will moderate that inflation next year , saying that is credit conditions fairly tight world-wide .
but said dirk van dongen , president of the national association of wholesaler-distributors , that `` is last month 's rise n't as bad an omen '' as suggest the 0.9 % figure .
explained he `` if examine carefully , you the data is concentrated the increase in energy and motor vehicle prices , rather than being a broad-based advance in the prices of consumer and industrial goods , '' .
jumped passenger car prices 3.8 % in september , after climbing 0.5 % in august and declining in the late spring and summer .
said many analysts was the september increase a one-time event , coming as introduced dealers their 1990 models .
although was adjusted all the price data for normal seasonal fluctuations , rose car prices beyond the customary autumn increase .
rose prices for capital equipment a hefty 1.1 % in september , while fell prices for home electronic equipment 1.1 % .
declined food prices 0.6 % , after climbing 0.3 % in august .
meanwhile , showed the retail sales report that rose car sales 0.8 % in september to $ 32.82 billion .
said analysts but could have come at least part of the increase from higher prices , .
rose sales at general merchandise stores 1.7 % after declining 0.6 % in august , while fell sales of building materials 1.8 % after rising 1.7 % .
grew producer prices for intermediate goods 0.4 % in september , after dropping for three consecutive months .
jumped prices for crude goods , an array of raw materials , 1.1 % after declining 1.9 % in august and edging up 0.2 % in july .
said cityfed financial corp. expect it to report a loss of at least $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter .
in the year-earlier period , had cityfed net income of $ 485,000 , but no per-share earnings .
said cityfed 's president and chief executive officer , john atherton , stem the loss from several factors .
said he rose nonperforming assets to slightly more than $ 700 million from $ 516 million between june and september .
consisted approximately 85 % of the total of nonperforming commercial real estate assets .
accordingly , estimated cityfed that will provide it between $ 85 million and $ 110 million for credit losses in the third quarter .
added cityfed that may be required significant additional loan-loss provisions by federal regulators as part of the current annual examination of city federal savings bank , cityfed 's primary subsidiary , based in somerset , n.j .
operate city federal 105 banking offices in new jersey and florida .
said mr. atherton will also mark cityfed its portfolio of high-yield corporate bonds to market as a result of federal legislation requiring that divest savings institutions themselves of such bonds .
said cityfed , will result that action , in a charge against third-quarter results of approximately $ 30 million .
also said cityfed expect it to shed its remaining mortgage loan origination operations outside its principal markets in new jersey and florida and , as a result , is taking a charge for discontinued operations .
said mr. atherton , will result all these actions , in a loss of $ 125 million to $ 150 million for the third quarter .
added however he `` depending on the resolution of certain accounting issues relating to mortgages servicing and the outcome of the annual examination of city federal currently in progress with respect to the appropriate level of loan loss reserves , could significantly exceed the total loss for the quarter this range , : .
said centrust savings bank ordered federal thrift regulators it to suspend dividend payments on its two classes of preferred stock , indicating that have heightened regulators ' concerns about the troubled institution .
in a statement , said miami-based centrust cited the regulators the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent losses '' in its junk-bond portfolio in ordering the suspension of the dividends .
also ordered regulators centrust to stop buying back the preferred stock .
criticized david l. paul , chairman and chief executive officer , the federal office of thrift supervision , which issued the directive , saying was it `` inappropriate '' and based on `` insufficient '' reasons .
said he will try the thrift to get regulators to reverse the decision .
is the suspension of a preferred stock dividend a serious step that signal that have regulators deep concerns about an institution 's health .
in march , labeled regulators centrust a `` troubled institution , '' largely because of its big junk-bond holdings and its operating losses .
in the same month , ordered the office of thrift supervision the institution to stop paying common stock dividends until was its operations on track .
for the nine months ended june 30 , had centrust a net loss of $ 21.3 million , compared with year-earlier net income of $ 52.8 million .
hold centrust , which is florida 's largest thrift , one of the largest junk-bond portfolios of any thrift in the nation .
since april , have pared it its high-yield bond holdings to about $ 890 million from $ 1.35 billion .
said mr. paul are only about $ 150 million of the current holdings tradeable securities registered with the securities and exchange commission .
said he , is the remainder , commercial loan participations , or private placements , that is n't filed with the sec and do n't have a ready market .
have been hounding the office of thrift supervision centrust to provide current market values for its holdings , but have said centrust ca n't easily obtain it such values because of the relative illiquidity of the bonds and lack of a ready market .
have become regulators increasingly antsy about centrust 's and other thrifts ' junk-bond holdings in light of the recent federal thrift bailout legislation and the recent deep decline in the junk-bond market .
require the legislation thrifts to divest themselves of junk bonds in the new , somber regulatory climate .
in american stock exchange composite trading friday , closed down 12.5 cents centrust common shares at $ 3 , .
in a statement friday , challenged mr. paul the regulators ' decision , saying `` have been substantially offset the thrift 's operating losses and `` apparent '' junk-bond losses by gains in other activities of the bank '' .
also said he have been set aside substantial reserves for possible losses from the junk bonds .
in the third quarter , for instance , added centrust $ 22.5 million to its general reserves .
said mr. paul should instead move ahead the regulators with approving centrust 's request to sell 63 of its 71 branches to great western bank , a unit of great western financial corp. based in beverly hills , calif .
is the branch sale the centerpiece of centrust 's strategy to transform from a high-flying institution that relied heavily on securities trading for profits , itself into a traditional s&l according to mr. paul .
had expected most analysts and thrift executives a decision on the proposed transaction , which was announced in july , long before now .
interpret many the delay as an indication that is regulators skeptical about the proposal .
can be sold branches and deposits at a premium in the event take over federal regulators an institution .
however , tout centrust , the branch sale , saying would bring in it $ 150 million and reduce the thrift 's assets to $ 6.7 billion from $ 9 billion .
said it would give the sale positive tangible capital of $ 82 million , or about 1.2 % of assets , it from a negative $ 33 million as of sept. 30 , thus bringing centrust close to regulatory standards .
said centrust would also reduce the branch sale the company 's large amount of good will by about $ 180 million .
however , say critics , will make the branch sale centrust more dependent than ever on brokered deposits and junk bonds .
mr. paul counters that intend he to further pare the size of centrust by not renewing more than $ 1 billion of brokered certificates of deposit when come they due .
is also working the thrift to unload its junk-bond portfolio by continuing to sell off the bonds , and plan it to eventually place some of them in a separate affiliate , as required under the new thrift law .
on a recent saturday night , in the midst of west germany 's most popular prime-time show , bet a contestant the host that could name she any of 100 different cheeses after just one nibble , while blindfolded .
won the woman the bet .
but perhaps even more remarkable , regularly win the three-hour-show , `` wetten dass '' ( make a bet ) , the top slot in the country 's tv ratings , sometimes drawing as many as 50 % of west german households .
as the 1992 economic integration approaches , have taken europe 's cultural curators threatening to impose quotas against such pop invaders as `` dallas , '' `` miami vice '' and `` l.a. law '' to the ramparts against american `` cultural imperialism , '' .
but seems much of what want the europeans to protect every bit as cheesy as is trying they what to keep out .
have come the most militant opposition to american tv imports from french television and movie producers , who have demanded quotas ensuring that be produced a full 60 % of europe 's tv shows in europe .
so far , have failed the french to win enough broad-based support to prevail .
suggest a glance through the television listings and a few twists of the european television dial one reason why .
while there is some popular action and drama series , boast few the high culture and classy production values might expect one .
is filled more european air time with low-budget game shows , variety hours , movies and talk shows , are many of which authorized knock-offs of their american counterparts .
have a flemish game show a belgian pretending to be italian as its host .
is one of italy 's favorite shows , `` fantastico , '' a tepid variety show , so popular that clamored viewers to buy a chocolate product , `` cacao fantastico , '' was sung whose praises each week by dancing showgirls -- though even did n't exist the product .
topping the cheese stunt , on another typical evening of fun on `` wetten dass , '' won a contestant a bet with the show 's host , thomas gottschalk , that could identify he 300 german dialects over the telephone .
also won a celebrity guest , u.s. ambassador to west germany richard burt , a bet that could pile up someone $ 150 worth of quarters on a slanted coin .
nonetheless paid mr. burt the penalty agreeing to spend frying their combined weight in potato pancakes and selling a day with west german foreign minister hans-dietrich genscher as if had lost he , .
if seem this like pretty weak stuff around which to raise the protectionist barriers , may be it because need these shows all the protection can get they .
usually target european programs only their own local audience , and often only a small portion of that .
rarely make mega-hits in germany or italy it even to france or great britain , and almost never show up on u.s. screens .
have generally resulted attempts to produce `` pan-european '' programs in disappointment .
have been described one annual co-production , the three-hour-long `` eurovision song contest , '' featuring soft-rock songs from each of 20 european countries , as the world 's most boring tv show .
is another , `` jeux sans frontieres , '' where make villagers from assorted european countries fools performing pointless tasks , of themselves a hit in france .
flopped fast a u.s.-made imitation under the title `` almost anything goes '' .
make up the cream of the british crop , the literary dramas that is shown on u.s. public television as `` masterpiece theater , '' a relatively small part of british air time .
is most british programming more of an acquired taste .
there is `` one man and his dog , '' a herding contest among sheep dogs , for instance , .
riveting to the british also is hours of dart-throwing championships , even more hours of lawn bowling contests and still more hours of snooker marathons .
have had european drama better , though still mixed , fortunes .
focus the most popular such shows on narrow national concerns .
had a french knock-off of `` dallas , '' called `` chateauvallon '' and set in a french vineyard , a good run in france , which ended after was injured the female lead in a real-life auto accident .
is `` schwarzwaldklinik , '' ( black forest clinic ) , a kind of german `` st . elsewhere '' set in a health spa , popular in germany , and has spread into france .
is italy 's most popular series a drama called `` la piovra , '' or `` the octopus , '' which chronicle the fight of an idealistic young investigator in palermo against the mafia .
was it front-page news in italy earlier this year when was gunned down the fictional inspector in the series .
was spain 's most popular mini-series this year `` juncal , '' the story of an aging bullfighter .
say brian wenham , a former director of programs for the british broadcasting corp `` is pretty well established the trend now that is local programs the most popular , with american programs second , '' .
`` given a choice , will watch everybody a home-produced show '' .
thus , have begun europe the recent crusade to produce more worthy shows of its own , programs with broader appeal .
concede colin young , head of britain 's national film theatre school `` have basically got we to start from scratch , to train writers and producers to make shows will want other people that to see , '' .
while contend some in the u.s. that is advertising the bane of television , believe here many that is its absence to blame for the european tv industry 's sluggish development .
until recently , controlled national governments in europe most of the air time and allowed little or no advertising .
since was guaranteed production costs , it did n't matter that could n't be sold abroad a program or put into syndication , as is most american programs .
but was spent either , not much money a situation that encouraged cheap-to-make talk and game shows , while discouraging expensive-to-produce dramas on the shows , .
now , however , is coming commercial channels to most european countries , and at the same time , is spreading rapidly satellite and cable technology .
just last week , authorized greece two commercial channels for the first time ; earlier began spain to allow commercial television alongside its state channels .
is the result a new and huge appetite for programming .
offer sky channel , a british-based venture of australian-american press tycoon rupert murdoch , what must be a baffling cultural mix to most of its audience .
offer the financially struggling station programs obviously made cheaply available from its boss 's other ventures .
in a madrid hotel room recently , caught a viewer the end of a badly acted series about a fishing boat on australia 's great barrier reef , only to be urged `` to stay tuned for the further adventures of skippy the kangaroo '' by the british announcer .
contributed lisa grishaw-mueller in bonn , laura colby in milan , tim carrington in london and carlta vitzhum in madrid to this article .
said british aerospace plc and france 's thomson-csf s.a. is nearing they an agreement to merge their guided-missile divisions , greatly expanding collaboration between the two defense contractors .
would have the 50-50 joint venture , which may be dubbed eurodynamics , combined annual sales of at least # 1.4 billion ( $ 2.17 billion ) and would be among the world 's largest missile makers .
after two years of talks , is plans for the venture sufficiently advanced for to seek the companies french and british government clearance .
hope the companies for a final agreement by year-end .
would strengthen the venture the rapidly growing ties between the two companies , and help make them a leading force in european defense contracting .
in recent months , have reshaped a string of cross-border mergers and joint ventures the once-balkanized world of european arms manufacture .
already , collaborate british aerospace and french government-controlled thomson-csf on a british missile contract and on an air-traffic control radar system .
just last week announced they may make they a joint bid to buy ferranti international signal plc , a smaller british defense contractor rocked by alleged accounting fraud at a u.s. unit .
is stirring the sudden romance of british aerospace and thomson-csf -- traditionally bitter competitors for middle east and third world weapons contracts -- controversy in western europe 's defense industry .
most threatened would be their respective national rivals , including matra s.a. in france and britain 's general electric co. plc by closer british aerospace-thomson ties .
but is sitting quietly by neither matra nor gec -- unrelated to stamford , conn.-based general electric co. -- as join their competitors forces .
yesterday , confirmed a source close to gec that may join his company the ferranti fight , as part of a possible consortium that would bid against british aerospace and thomson-csf .
include companies with which have had gec talks about a possible joint ferranti bid matra , britain 's dowty group plc , west germany 's daimler-benz ag , and france 's dassault group .
indicated the source but it may be weeks before decide gec and its potential partners whether to bid , .
plan first gec to study ferranti 's financial accounts , which recently said auditors included # 215 million in fictitious contracts at a u.s. unit , international signal & control group , with which merged ferranti last year .
also , might be blocked any gec bid by british antitrust regulators ; is ferranti gec 's main competitor on several key defense-electronics contracts , and may heighten its purchase by gec british defense ministry worries about concentration in the country 's defense industry .
however , would diminish a consortium bid , gec 's direct role in ferranti and might consequently appease ministry officials .
appeared a british aerospace spokeswoman unperturbed by the prospect of a fight with gec for ferranti : said she `` is competition the name of the game , '' .
insist at least one potential gec partner , matra , is it n't interested in ferranti .
said a matra official `` have we nothing to say about this affair , which do n't concern us , '' sunday .
said the british aerospace spokeswoman , is the missile venture , a needed response to the `` new environment '' in defense contracting .
for both thomson and british aerospace , have come earnings in their home markets under pressure from increasingly tight-fisted defense ministries ; and have been hurt middle east sales , a traditional mainstay for both companies ' exports , by five years of weak oil prices .
is the venture 's importance for thomson great .
feel thomson depend the future of its defense business on building cooperation with other europeans .
is consolidating the european defense industry ; for instance , recently joined west germany 's siemens ag gec in a takeover of britain 's plessey co. , and agreed daimler-benz to buy messerschmitt-boelkow blohm g.m.b . h .
in missiles , is already overshadowed thomson by british aerospace and by its home rival , france 's aerospatiale s.a. ; to better compete , say thomson officials , need they a partnership .
to justify 50-50 ownership of the planned venture , would make thomson a cash payment to british aerospace .
said a thomson spokesman is annual revenue of british aerospace 's missile business about # 950 million , .
include british aerospace 's chief missile products its 17-year-old family of rapier surface-to-air missiles .
with about half british aerospace 's annual revenue , include thomson missile products , the crotale surface-to-air missile family .
said interprovincial pipe line co. will delay it a proposed two-step , 830 million canadian-dollar ( us$ 705.6 million ) expansion of its system because is shrinking canada 's output of crude oil .
said interprovincial , canada 's biggest oil pipeline operator and a major transporter of crude to the u.s. , indicate revised industry forecasts that will total canadian oil output about 1.64 million barrels a day 8 % lower than a previous estimate by 1991 , .
averaged canadian crude production about 1.69 million barrels a day during 1989 's first half , about 1 % below the 1988 level .
said ronald watkins , vice president for government and industry relations with interprovincial 's parent , interhome energy inc `` is dropping the capability of existing fields to deliver oil , '' and is oil exploration activity also down dramatically , as shift many producers their emphasis to natural gas , .
said mr. watkins is volume on interprovincial 's system down about 2 % since january and is expected to fall further , making expansion unnecessary until perhaps the mid-1990s .
said he `` there has been a swing of the pendulum back to the gas side , '' .
say many of canada 's oil and gas producers is the outlook for natural gas better than it is for oil , and have shifted accordingly their exploration and development budgets .
said robert feick , manager of crude oil with calgary 's independent petroleum association of canada , an industry group is down 30 % from a year ago , due to the increasing focus on gas exploration , the number of active drilling rigs in canada and is `` down more than that , '' the number of completed oil wells .
said mr. watkins is the main reason for the production decline shrinking output of light crude from mature , conventional fields in western canada .
transport interprovincial about 75 % of all crude produced in western canada , and consist almost 60 % of interprovincial 's total volume of light crude .
said john lichtblau , president of the new york-based petroleum industry research foundation total canada 's current oil exports to the u.s. about 600,000 barrels a day , or about 9.1 % of net u.s. crude imports , .
rank that canada as the fourth-largest source of imported crude , behind saudi arabia , nigeria and mexico .
said mr. lichtblau will help canada 's declining crude output , combined with the fast-shrinking output of u.s. crude , intensify u.s. reliance on oil from overseas , particularly the middle east .
`` be it very much a growing concern .
'' said he but when is something inevitable , learn you to live with it , .
stressed mr. lichtblau that by itself wo n't increase however , the delay of interprovincial 's proposed expansion u.s. dependence on offshore crude , since is limited canadian imports in any case by canada 's falling output .
under terms of its proposed two-step expansion , which would have required regulatory approval , intended interprovincial to add 200,000 barrels a day of additional capacity to its system , beginning with a modest expansion by 1991 .
currently have the system a capacity of 1.55 million barrels a day .
expect inland steel industries inc. to report that dropped third-quarter earnings more than 50 % from the previous quarter as a result of reduced sales volume and increased costs .
in the second quarter , had the steelmaker net income of $ 45.3 million or $ 1.25 a share , including a pretax charge of $ 17 million related to the settlement of a suit , on sales of $ 1.11 billion .
said the company reduced normal seasonal softness and lost orders caused by prolonged labor talks shipments by 200,000 tons in the latest quarter , compared with the second quarter .
at the same time , was hurt the integrated-steel business by continued increases in materials costs and repair and maintenance expenses , as well as higher labor costs under its new contract .
was hurt the service-center business by reduced margins and start-up costs associated with its joseph t. ryerson & son unit .
said the company is beginning it to see some shipping-rate improvements in both the intergrated-steel and steel-service-center segments , which should result in improved results for the fourth quarter .
said inland will be announced its third-quarter results later this week .
in the year-earlier third quarter , when was the industry in the midst of a boom , had the company net of $ 61 million , or $ 1.70 a share , on sales of $ 1.02 billion .
in july , stunned the company wall street with the prediction that growth in the personal computer business overall would be only 10 % in 1990 , a modest increase when compared with the sizzling expansion of years past .
-- taking this as a sign that was a broad industry slump in the offing -- reacted investors by selling the company 's stock , which lost $ 3.25 that day to close at $ 52 in national over-the-counter trading .
but was all of three months ago that .
last week , said microsoft expect it revenue for its first quarter ended sept. 30 to increase 34 % .
caused the announcement the company 's stock to surge $ 6.50 to close at $ 75.50 a share .
is microsoft 's surprising strength one example of the difficulty facing investors looking for reassurances about the financial health of the computer firms .
said peter rogers , an analyst at robertson stephens & co `` be it hard to know what to expect at this point , '' .
`` defy the industry characterization '' .
to illustrate , said mr. rogers that of the 14 computer-related firms follow he , will report half earnings below last year 's results , for their most recent quarter and half above those results .
among those companies expected to have a down quarter is hewlett-packard co. , amdahl corp. and sun microsystems inc. , generally solid performers in the past .
also is expected international business machines corp. to report disappointing results .
meanwhile , is expected apple computer inc. , to show improved earnings for the period ended sept .
come another contradictory message from businessland inc. , a computer retailer .
in july , reported the company that had resulted booming sales of new personal computers from apple and ibm in more than doubling net income for its fourth quarter ended june 30 to $ 7.4 million , or 23 cents a share .
this month , however , warned businessland investors that had n't met results for its first quarter ended sept. 30 expectations .
said the company expect it earnings of 14 to 17 cents a share , down from 25 cents a share in the year-earlier period .
while confuse the earnings picture , say observers is the major forces expected to shape the industry in the coming year clearer .
will continue companies to war over standards .
in computer publishing , is hurting a battle over typefaces adobe systems inc. , which sell software that control the image produced by printers and displays .
until recently , had adobe a lock on the market for image software , but last month rebelled apple , adobe 's biggest customer , and microsoft .
now is collaborating the two firms on an alternative to adobe 's approach , and say analysts is they likely to carry along with them ibm , the biggest seller of personal computers , .
however , appear the short-term outlook for adobe 's business , strong .
is beginning the company to ship a new software program that 's being heralded as a boon for owners of low-end printers sold by apple .
is aimed the program at improving the quality of printed material .
said john warnock , adobe 's chief executive officer , have been receiving the mountain view , calif. , company 1,000 calls a day about the product since was demonstrated several weeks ago it at a computer publishing conference .
meanwhile , spell competition between various operating systems , which control the basic functions of a computer , trouble for software firms generally .
said russ crabs , an analyst at soundview financial group `` create it uncertainty and usually slow down sales , '' .
said mr. crabs probably is this behind the expected weak performance of aldus corp. , maker of a widely used computer publishing program .
expect he aldus to report earnings of 21 cents a share on revenues of $ 19.5 million for its third quarter , compared with earnings of 30 cents a share on revenue of 20.4 million in the year-earlier period .
could n't be reached aldus officials for comment .
on the other hand , is expected the battle of the bus to grow increasingly irrelevant .
is a bus the data highway within a computer .
is backing ibm one type of bus called microchannel , while have chosen the nine other leading computer makers , including h-p and compaq computer corp. , another method .
said daniel benton , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co `` do n't care users about the bus , '' .
said he for instance , use apple 's family of macintosh computers , four different buses `` and '' seem no one to mind .
will grow the gap between winners and laggards .
in personal computers , is expected apple , compaq and ibm to tighten their hold on their business .
at the same time , will continue second-tier firms to lose ground .
even may leave altogether some lagging competitors the personal computer business .
for instance , is considered wyse technology , a candidate to sell its troubled operation .
said kimball brown , an analyst at prudential-bache securities `` have done well wyse establishing a distribution business , but have n't delivered they products that sell , '' .
estimate mr. brown will report wyse , is whose terminals business strong , a loss of 12 cents a share for its quarter ended sept .
will continue personal-computer makers to eat away at the business of more traditional computer firms .
is expected ever-more powerful desk-top computers , designed with one or more microprocessors as their `` brains , '' to increasingly take on functions carried out by more expensive minicomputers and mainframes .
said mr. benton `` is really being obsoleted the guys that make traditional hardware by microprocessor-based machines , '' .
as a result of this trend , is scrambling longtime powerhouses h-p , ibm and digital equipment corp. to counterattack with microprocessor-based systems of their own .
but will have they to act quickly .
expect mr. benton compaq to unveil a family of high-end personal computers later this year that are powerful enough to serve as the hub for communications within large networks of desk-top machines .
also have targeted a raft of new computer companies this `` server '' market .
end population drain for midwestern states
is making iowa a comeback .
so is indiana , ohio and michigan .
is the population of all four states on the upswing , according to new census bureau estimates , following declines throughout the early 1980s .
to be sure , is the gains , rather small .
say the census bureau for instance , saw iowa , grow its population by 11,000 people , or 0.4 % , between 1987 and 1988 , .
still , is even that modest increase good news for a state that had n't grown at all since 1981 .
between 1987 and 1988 , was north dakota the only state in the midwest to lose population , a loss of 4,000 people .
have been holding the northeast its own in the population race .
have grown seven of nine states including new york , which lost 4 % of its population during the 1970s each year since 1980 , .
and although suffered earlier in the decade , pennsylvania and massachusetts slight declines is growing again they .
at the same time , have had several states in the south and west their own population turnaround .
is now losing seven states that grew in the early 1980s population -- west virginia , mississippi , louisiana , oklahoma , montana , wyoming and alaska .
overall , though , still outpace the south and west the northeast and midwest , and ensure fast-growing states like florida and california that will continue the pattern .
but have clearly started the growth gap between the sun belt and other regions narrowing .
thanks to modern medicine , is growing together more couples old .
show a new census bureau study of the noninstitutionalized population that was living up from 59 % in 1970 64 % of people aged 65 to 74 with a spouse in 1988 , .
do n't mean however this be they less likely to live alone , .
have remained that share at about 24 % since 1970 .
in 1988 , lived down from 15 % in 1970 10 % of those aged 65 to 74 with relatives other than spouses , .
as get people even older , become many widowed .
but even among those aged 75 and older , rose slightly , the share living with a spouse to 40 % in 1988 from 38 % in 1970 .
lived down from 26 % in 1970 only 17 % of those aged 75 and older with relatives other than spouses in 1988 , .
have increased the likelihood of living alone beyond the age of 75 to 40 % from 32 % .
is remaining longer more people independent presumably because is they better off physically and financially .
count most careers for the well-to-do
place many affluent people personal success and money above family .
said two-thirds of respondents strongly felt they the need to be successful in their jobs , while said fewer than half strongly felt they the need to spend more time with their families .
being successful in careers and spending the money make they are top priorities for this group .
unlike most studies of the affluent market , excluded this survey the super-rich .
was average household income for the sample $ 194,000 , and was reported average net assets as $ 775,000 .
was the goal to learn about one of today 's fastest-growing income groups , the upper-middle class .
although represent they only 2 % of the population , control they nearly one-third of discretionary income .
across the board , value these consumers quality , buy what like just they rather than what need they , and appreciate products that are distinctive .
despite their considerable incomes and assets , do n't feel 40 % of the respondents in the study financially secure , and do n't feel one-fourth that have made they it .
do n't even feel twenty percent is they financially well off .
do n't feel about 40 % be they more able than others .
while feel twothirds some guilt about being affluent , give only 25 % $ 2,500 or more to charity each year .
attend regularly thirty-five percent religious services ; at the same time , feel 60 % that in life sometimes have one to compromise one 's principles .
have more than doubled the number of women and minorities who hold jobs in top management in the nation 's largest banks since 1978 .
say the american bankers association that make up women 47 % of officials and managers in the top 50 banks , up from 33 % in 1978 .
have risen the share of minorities in those positions to 16 % from 12 % ... .
grew faster than inflation per-capita personal income in the u.s. last year , according to the bureau of economic analysis .
was the amount of income divvied up for each man , woman and child $ 16,489 in 1988 , up 6.6 % from $ 15,472 in 1987 .
ranged per capita personal income from $ 11,116 in mississippi to $ 23,059 in connecticut ... .
there is up 2 % from 1988 , 13.1 million students in college this fall , the national center for education statistics estimates .
is about 54 % women , and is 44 % part-time students .
's got this small dallas suburb trouble .
trouble with a capital t and rhyme that with p and stand that for pool .
more than 30 years ago , warned prof. harold hill , the con man in meredith willson 's `` the music man , '' the citizens of river city , iowa , against the game .
now have barred kindred spirits on addison 's town council the town 's fanciest hotel , the grand kempinski , from installing three free pool tables in its new lounge .
said mayor lynn spruill and two members of the council was they worried about setting a precedent that would permit pool halls along addison 's main street .
and warned the mayor , in an admonition that bear a rhythmic resemblance to prof. hill 's , that `` lead alcohol to betting , which lead to fights '' .
is the council 's action yet another blow to a sport that its fans claim has been maligned unjustly for years .
say tom manske , vice president of the national pocket billiards association `` obviously be they not in touch with what 's going on , '' .
is pool hot in new york and chicago , insist he , where is adding `` upscale , suit-and-tie places '' tables .
with today 's tougher drunk driving laws , add he , `` do n't want people to just sit around and drink '' .
besides , seem rowdy behavior unlikely at the grand kempinski , where average rooms $ 200 a night and go the cheap mixed drinks for $ 3.50 a pop .
at the lounge , wo n't admit manager elizabeth dyer patrons in jeans , t-shirts or tennis shoes .
but did n't buy a majority of the addison council those arguments .
introducing pool , argued councilwoman riley reinker , would be `` dangerous .
would open it a can of worms '' .
is addison no stranger to cans of worms , either .
after committed its previous mayor suicide last year , disclosed an investigation that regularly voted town officials on their own projects , gave special favors to developer friends and dipped into the town 's coffers for trips and retreats .
embarrassed the revelations town officials , although argued they that was the problems n't as severe as suggested the media .
now come the pool flap .
say councilman john nolan `` think i there be some people worried about something pretty ridiculous , '' .
`` thought i all was taken this care of in ` the music man .
was the only thing could praise robert goldberg about cbs 's new show `` island son '' ( leisure & arts , sept. 25 ) the local color ; unfortunately have done neither he nor the producers of the show their homework .
dress richard chamberlain tucking in a hawaiian shirt and rolling up its long sleeves as a `` mainland haole , '' .
and is the local expression for brother `` brah , '' not `` bruddah . ''
and if even would wear a nurse flowers in her hair while on duty , if was she engaged would know she to wear them behind her left , not right , ear .
sorry , do not even have the show the one redeeming quality of genuine local color .
or so must seem it to jackie mason , the veteran jewish comedian appearing in a new abc sitcom airing on tuesday nights ( 9:30-10 p.m. edt ) .
not only is mr. mason the star of `` chicken soup , '' be he also the inheritor of a comedic tradition dating back to `` duck soup , '' and be he currently a man in hot water .
in neutral language , here , is the gist of mr. mason 's remarks , quoted first in the village voice while was he a paid spokesman for the rudolph giuliani mayoral campaign , and then in newsweek after parted he and the campaign company .
said mr. mason that feel many jewish voters guilty toward blacks , so support uncritically they black candidates .
said he that feel many black voters bitter about racial discrimination , so too , support uncritically they , black candidates .
said he that have contributed jews more to black causes over the years than vice versa .
of course , did not use mr. mason neutral language .
as a practitioner of ethnic humor from the old days on the borscht belt , live television and the nightclub circuit , instinctively reached mr. mason for the vernacular .
said he was jews `` sick with complexes '' ; and called he david dinkins , mr. giuliani 's black opponent , `` a fancy shvartze with a mustache '' .
if had used mr. mason less derogatory language to articulate his amateur analysis of the voting behavior of his fellow new yorkers , would the water be quite so hot ?
because probably would , have bothered it few or none of the people upset by mr. mason 's remarks to distinguish between the substance of his comments and the fact that used he insulting language .
in addition , have implied some of mr. mason 's critics that is his type of ethnic humor itself a form of racism .
for example , said the new york state counsel for the naacp that is mr. mason `` like a dinosaur .
is fast leaving people the place where is stuck he '' .
fail these critics to distinguish between the type of ethnic humor that aim at disparaging another group , such as `` polish jokes '' ; and the type that is double-edged , aiming inward as well as outward .
typically is the latter the humor of the underdog , and was perfected it by both blacks and jews on the minstrel and vaudeville stage as a means of mocking their white and gentile audiences along with themselves .
in the hands of a zealot like lenny bruce , could cut this double-edged blade both the self and the audience to ribbons .
but wielded by a pro like jackie mason , is it a constructive form of mischief .
because despite all the media prattle about not mixing comedy and politics , is they similar in one respect : can serve both as mechanisms for easing tensions and facilitating the co-existence of groups in conflict .
be that why be it dangerous to have on college campuses and elsewhere , taboo well-intentioned thought police , all critical mention of group differences .
as wrote elizabeth kristol in the new york times just before the mason donnybrook , `` perhaps would not boil over intolerance with such intensity if was allowed honest differences to simmer '' .
is the question if still exist group conflicts ( as undeniably do they ) , and if is mr. mason 's type of ethnic humor passe , then do have we what other means for letting off steam ? ,
do n't say the tv sitcom , because happen that to be a genre in its desperate need to attract everybody and offend nobody , resembles more than it does comedy that , politics .
is it true that do allow the best sitcoms group differences to simmer : yuppies vs. blue-collar bostonians in `` cheers '' ; children vs. adults in `` the cosby show '' .
but is these not the differences that make headlines .
in `` chicken soup , '' play mr. mason jackie , a jewish bachelor courting maddie ( lynn redgrave ) , an irish widow and mother of three , against the wishes of his mother ( rita karin ) and her brother michael ( brandon maggart ) .
it 's worth noting that is both disapproving relatives immigrants .
at least , both speak they with strong accents , as do jackie and maddie .
it could n't be more obvious that is being made `` chicken soup '' from an old recipe .
and a safe one -- imagine if was the romance in question between an orthodox jew and a member of the nation of islam .
back in the 1920s , made the play and movie versions of `` abie 's irish rose '' the theme of courtship between the assimilated offspring of jewish and irish immigrants so popular that lost its author , anne nichols , a plagiarism suit on the grounds that have entered the plot the public domain .
and have remained there , it as evidenced by its reappearance in a 1972 cbs sitcom called `` bridget loves bernie , '' was whose sole distinction that led it to the real-life marriage of meredith baxter and david birney .
clearly , is not the question with `` chicken soup '' whether will boil over , the pot but whether will simmer it at all .
is part of the problem the tendency of all sitcoms , ever since the didactic days of norman lear , to preach about social issues .
to some extent , emerge this tendency whenever try the show to enlighten us about ethnic stereotypes by reversing them .
for instance , dislike michael jackie not because be he a shrewd jewish businessman , but because quit he his well-paying job as a salesman in order to become a social worker .
even more problematic is the incompatibility between sitcom preachiness and mr. mason 's comic persona .
occur the best moments in the show at the beginning and the end ( and occasionally in the middle ) , when slip mr. mason into his standup mode and starts meting out that old-fashioned jewish mischief to other people as well as to himself .
but too often , lack these routines spark because like all sitcoms , is this sitcom , timid about confronting mr. mason 's stock in trade - ethnic differences .
be not suggesting i that start the producers putting together episodes about topics like the catholic-jewish dispute over the carmelite convent at auschwitz .
like racial tensions in new york city , will have that issue , to cool down , not heat up , before can simmer it .
but be suggesting i that stop they requiring mr. mason to interrupt with some line about `` caring for other people '' that would sound shmaltzy on the lips of miss america his classic shtik .
have right up through friday the official white house reaction to a plunge in stock prices a 60-year history of calm , .
said treasury secretary nicholas brady that `` do n't signal the stock-market decline any fundamental change in the condition of the economy '' in a statement friday .
added he , `` remain `` the economy , '' well-balanced and is the outlook for continued moderate growth '' .
here be what said ronald reagan after the 1987 crash : `` remain the underlying economy sound .
there is nothing wrong with the economy ... is up all the indices '' .
after the 1929 crash , said herbert hoover `` ... is the fundamental business of the country on a sound and prosperous basis : .
was elected james robinson , 57 years old , president and chief executive officer of this maker of magnetic recording heads for disk drives .
will continue charles j. lawson jr. , 68 , who had been acting chief executive since june 14 , as chairman .
resigned the former president and chief executive , eric w. markrud , in june .
still leave the senate 's decision to approve a bare-bones deficit-reduction bill without a capital-gains tax cut open the possibility of enacting a gains tax reduction this year .
late friday night , voted 87-7 the senate to approve an estimated $ 13.5 billion measure that had been stripped of hundreds of provisions that would have widened , rather than narrowed , the federal budget deficit .
drastically streamlined lawmakers the bill to blunt criticism that was it bloated with special-interest tax breaks and spending increases .
said senate budget committee chairman james sasser ( d. , tenn . ) `` be putting back we a deficit-reduction bill in the category of being a deficit-reduction bill , '' .
but said senate supporters of the trimmer legislation that would soon be moving other bills that could carry some of the measures that had been cast aside , including a capital-gains tax cut through congress .
in addition , include the companion deficit-reduction bill already passed by the house a capital-gains provision .
is house-senate negotiations likely to begin at midweek and last for a while .
said senate minority leader robert dole ( r. , kan . ) `` can predict no one exactly what will happen on the house side , '' .
but , added he , `` believe i will work together republicans and democrats to get capital-gains reform this year '' .
told white house budget director richard darman reporters that would n't push the administration to keep the capital-gains cut in the final version of the bill yesterday .
said he `` do n't need we this as a way to get capital gains , '' .
said house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) `` if 's that the signal that comes from the white house , that will help a great deal '' in an interview , .
was the senate 's decision a setback for president bush and will make approval of a capital-gains tax cut less certain this year .
is playing opponents of the cut hardball .
said senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) was he `` confident '' that would n't include any house-senate agreement on the deficit-reduction legislation a capital-gains tax cut .
and said a senior aide to the house ways and means committee , where originate tax legislation , there is n't any `` plans to produce another tax bill that could carry a gains tax cut this year '' .
is one obvious place to attach a capital-gains tax cut , and perhaps other popular items stripped from the deficit-reduction bill , the legislation to raise the federal borrowing limit .
must be enacted such legislation by the end of the month .
was pared back the senate bill in an attempt to speed deficit-reduction through congress .
because have n't been completed the legislation , have president bush to enact across-the-board spending cuts mandated by the gramm-rudman deficit-reduction law until midnight tonight .
hope senators that will pressure the need to avoid those cuts the house to agree to the streamlined bill .
appear the house reluctant to join the senators .
is a key whether is house republicans willing to acquiesce to their senate colleagues ' decision to drop many pet provisions .
`` although be encouraged i by the senate action , '' said chairman dan rostenkowski ( d. , ill . ) of the house ways and means committee , `` is it uncertain whether can be achieved a clean bill in the upcoming conference with the senate . ''
is another big question hovering over the debate what think president bush .
have been resisting he a stripped-down bill without a guaranteed vote on his capital-gains tax cut .
but saw republican senators no way to overcome a procedural hurdle and garner the 60 votes needed to win the capital-gains issue on the floor , so went ahead with the streamlined bill they .
was stripped the senate bill of many popular , though revenue-losing , provisions , is included a number of which in the house-passed bill .
include these a child-care initiative and extensions of soon-to-expire tax breaks for low-income housing and research-and-development expenditures .
also missing is the house 's repeal of a law , called section 89 , that compel companies to give comparable health benefits to top paid executives rank-and-file workers from the senate bill .
was one high-profile provision that was originally in the senate bill but was cut out because lost it money the proposal by chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) of the senate finance committee to expand the deduction for individual retirement accounts .
said mr. bentsen hope he will consider soon the senate that measure .
to the delight of some doctors , dropped the bill a plan passed by the finance committee that would have overhauled the entire physician-reimbursement system under medicare .
to the detriment of many low-income people , also was stricken efforts to boost medicaid funding , especially in rural areas , .
asked why was giving up senators so much , said new mexico sen. pete domenici , the ranking republican on the senate budget committee , `` be looking we like idiots , .
had just gone too far things '' .
said sen. dole that required the move sacrifice by every senator .
worked it , said others , because there was no exceptions : was stricken all revenue-losing provisions .
also dropped the senate a plan by its finance committee that would have increased the income threshold beyond which have senior citizens reduced their social security benefits .
in addition , dropped the bill a plan to make permanent a 3 % excise tax on long-distance telephone calls .
no longer include it a plan that would have repealed what remains of the completed-contract method of accounting , which is used to reduce their tax burden by military contractors .
also drop it a provision that would have permitted corporations to use excess pension funds to pay health benefits for current retirees .
also stricken was a fivefold increase in the maximum occupational safety and health administration penalties , which would have raised $ 65 million in fiscal 1990 .
was excised a provision that would have made the social security administration an independent agency .
was the approval of the senate bill especially sweet for sen. mitchell , who had proposed the streamlining .
have been strained mr. mitchell 's relations with budget director darman , who pushed for to be added a capital-gains cut to the measure , since chose mr. darman to bypass the maine democrat and deal with other lawmakers earlier this year during a dispute over drug funding in the fiscal 1989 supplemental spending bill .
contain the deficit reduction bill $ 5.3 billion in tax increases in fiscal 1990 , and $ 26 billion over five years .
the revenue-raising provisions , which affect mostly corporations , would :
-- require mutual funds to include dividends paid to them on the date that is declared the dividends rather than received , in their taxable income effective the day after is enacted the tax bill .
repeal the measure a 50 % exclusion given to banks on the interest from loans used to acquire securities for an esop , if own the esop less than 30 % of the employer 's stock .
also include the measure spending cuts and increases in federal fees .
would impose the plan a brief freeze on physician fees next year .
is a similar provision in the house version .
-- authority for to raise the federal aviation administration $ 239 million by charging fees for commercial airline-landing rights at new york 's laguardia and john f. kennedy international airports , o'hare international airport in chicago and national airport in washington .
contributed john e. yang to this article .
in response to your overly optimistic , outdated piece on how long last unemployment ( people patterns , sept. 20 ) : i am in the communications field , above entry level .
was laid off i in august 1988 , and after a thorough and exhausting job search , was hired in august 1989 .
ran out my unemployment insurance before found i a job ; found i cutbacks and layoffs in many companies .
is the statistics quoted by the `` new '' census bureau report ( garnered from 1984 to 1986 ) out of date , certainly as an average for the northeast , and possibly for the rest of the country .
think i was what bothered most me about the piece that there seemed to be an underlying attitude to tell your readers is all well -- do n't worry if 're getting laid off you , and if 're you unemployed , be it a seller 's market .
need your paper a serious reality check .
is bull hn information systems inc. a u.s. majority-owned unit of cie. des machines bull .
in friday 's edition , was misstated the name of the unit .
said moody 's investors service reduced it its rating on $ 165 million of subordinated debt of this beverly hills , calif. , thrift , citing turmoil in the market for low-grade , high-yield securities .
said the agency reduced it its rating on the thrift 's subordinated debt to b-2 from ba-2 and will keep the debt under review for possible further downgrade .
is columbia savings a major holder of so-called junk bonds .
require new federal legislation that divest all thrifts themselves of such speculative securities over a period of years .
was columbia savings officials n't available for comment on the downgrade .
said moody 's investors service inc. downgraded it its rating to b-2 from ba-3 on less than $ 20 million of this thrift 's senior subordinated notes .
said the rating concern was franklin 's `` troubled diversification record in the securities business '' one reason for the downgrade , citing the troubles at its l.f. rothschild subsidiary and the possible sale of other subsidiaries .
said franklin president duane h. hall `` perhaps had they concern that was getting out of all these , we '' .
`` think i was it a little premature on their part .
just when seemed it safe to go back into stocks , suffered wall street another severe attack of nerves .
do signal this is coming another black monday ?
or is this an extraordinary buying opportunity , like just eventually turned out oct. 19 , 1987 , to be ?
say `` i 'm the only one who said there would be an october massacre , all through late august and september , '' mr. granville , once a widely followed market guru and still a well-known newsletter writer .
say he `` will tell everyone you that is this time different from 1987 , '' .
`` well , in some ways is it different , but technically is it just the same .
right now be telling they me to get the hell out and stay out .
see i no major support until 2200 .
see i a possibility of going to 2200 this month '' .
say mr. granville would n't even think he of buying until have hit at least 600 to 700 stocks 52-week lows ; hit about 100 stocks new lows friday .
say he , `` have `` most people , '' no idea what like look a massacre pattern '' .
had warned ms. garzarelli a quantitative analyst with shearson lehman hutton inc. , clients to take out of the market their money before the 1987 crash .
say she , `` was friday 's big drop , not a crash .
was this an october massacre '' like those that occurred in 1978 and 1979 .
now , as in those two years , is her stock market indicators positive .
so think she the damage will be short-lived and contained .
say she `` lasted those corrections one to four weeks and took 10%-12 % down , the market '' .
`` is this exactly the same thing , as far as be concerned i . ''
thus , say she , if dropped the dow jones industrial average below 2450 , `` it would just be a fluke .
is my advice to buy '' .
as calculate she it , now sell the average stock for about 12.5 times companies ' earnings .
say she could climb that ratio to 14.5 , given current interest rates , and still be within the range of `` fair value '' .
say mr. davis , president of ned davis research inc mark friday 's fall the start of a bear market , .
but say mr. davis , is widely respected whose views by money managers , expect he no 1987-style crash .
say he `` there was a unique combination in 1987 , '' .
`` was margin debt at a record high .
there was tremendous public enthusiasm for stock mutual funds .
was the main thing portfolio insurance , '' a mechanical trading system intended to protect an investor against losses .
was a hundred billion dollars in stock subject '' to it .
in 1987 , contributed such selling to a snowball effect .
today could even be an up day , say mr. davis , if agree major brokerage firms to refrain from program trading .
over the next several months , though , say he look things bad .
say he `` think i will be heading down the market into november , '' .
`` will probably have we a year-end rally , and then go down again .
expect he the downturn to carry down the dow jones industrial average to around 2000 sometime next year .
say he `` that would be a normal bear market , '' .
`` guess i that 's my forecast '' .
`` do n't think i is going the market through another october '87 .
'' say mr. cooperman , a partner at goldman , sachs & co. and chairman of goldman sachs asset management do n't think i be that the case at all , .
see mr. cooperman this as a good time to pick up bargains , but do n't think he there be any need to rush .
`` expect i the market to open weaker monday , but then should find it some stability '' .
tick off he several major differences between now and two years ago .
unlike 1987 , have been falling interest rates this year .
and unlike 1987 , do n't appear the economy to be in any danger of overheating .
say he but also mean the economy 's slower growth this year `` is the outlook for corporate profits n't good , '' .
`` so be it a very mixed bag . ''
thus , conclude he , `` is this not a good environment to be fully invested in stocks '' .
`` if had come i into friday on margin or with very little cash in the portfolios , would not do i any buying .
but came we into friday with a conservative portfolio , so would look i to do some modest buying '' on behalf of clients .
be going we to look for some of the better-known companies that got clocked '' friday .
say mr. galbraith , an economist `` is this the latest manifestation of the capacity of the financial community for recurrent insanity , '' .
say he `` see i this as a reaction to the whole junk bond explosion , '' .
`` have lodged the explosion of junk bonds and takeovers a lot of insecure securities in the hands of investors and loaded the corporations that are the objects of takeovers or feared takeovers with huge amounts of debt rather than equity .
both have made this investors uneasy and the corporations more vulnerable '' .
nevertheless , say he do n't appear a depression likely .
say he `` there is more resiliency in the economy at large than commonly suppose we , '' .
`` take now it more error to have a major depression than back in the thirties -- as much may try the financial community and the government '' .
say new york money manager mario gabelli , an expert at spotting takeover candidates , that is n't totally gone takeovers .
say he `` is still going companies to buy companies around the world , '' .
is examples `` looking ford at jaguar , looking bellsouth at lin broadcasting '' .
do n't require these sorts of takeovers junk bonds or big bank loans to finance them , so mr. gabelli figures will continue they .
`` was up 35 % the market since took -lcb- president -rcb- bush office , '' say mr. gabelli , so was a correction to be expected .
think he is another crash `` unlikely , '' and say `` was nibbling he '' at selected stocks during friday 's plunge .
say he `` is stocks that were thrown out just on an emotional basis a great opportunity -lcb- this -rcb- week for guys like me , '' .
says `` seem it that is this the pin that have finally pricked the balloon , to me '' mr. rogers , a professor of finance at columbia university and former co-manager of one of the most successful hedge funds in history , quantum fund .
see he `` economic problems , financial problems '' ahead for the u.s. , with a fairly strong possibility of a recession .
say he `` friday could n't sell you dollars , '' .
`` would give dealers a quote , you but then refuse to make the trade '' .
wo n't decide mr. rogers what to do today until see he how go the london and tokyo markets .
recommend he that sell investors takeover-related stocks , but hang on to some other stocks -- especially utilities , which often do well during periods of economic weakness .
now claim many people to have predicted the 1987 crash .
actually did queens newsletter writer francis x. curzio it : stated he that was the dow jones industrial average likely to decline about 500 points the following month in writing in september 1987 .
say mr. curzio will depend what happen now a good deal on the federal reserve board .
if promptly cut it the discount rate charge it on loans to banks , say he , `` could quiet down that things '' .
if not , `` could go very soon we to 2200 '' .
say mr. terrizzi , president and managing director of renaissance investment management inc. in cincinnati `` would still have stock prices to go down some additional amount before become we positive on stocks , '' .
drew renaissance , which manages about $ 1.8 billion , stiff criticism from many clients earlier this year because pulled entirely it out of stocks at the beginning of the year and thus missed a strong rally .
is keeping renaissance its money entirely in cash equivalents , primarily u.s. treasury bills .
say he `` probably is t-bills the right place to be , '' .
1 . that was your sept. 28 editorial `` kangaroo committees '' factually inaccurate and deliberately misleading .
thought i was your editorial factually accurate and deliberately elucidative .
2 . that supported mr. lantos the rights of the witnesses to take the fifth amendment .
yes , did he .
as watched i him on c-span , heard i speak him those lovely words about the bill of rights , which quote he from the transcript of the hearings .
did repeat he those nice platitudes several times as an indication of his support for the constitution .
used he about 56 words defending the witnesses ' constitutional rights .
by my rough guess , unfortunately , used he better than 5,000 words heaping scorn on the witnesses for exercising the fifth .
sandwiched he his praise of constitutional meat between large loaves of bilious commentary .
as rightly pointed out , your editorial `` is currently being held up to scorn samuel pierce , former hud secretary , and lance wilson , mr. pierce 's former aide , for taking the fifth amendment .
'' certainly is that not the supposed `` distorted reading '' indicated by mr. lantos .
3 . that `` do not deal his committee with any possible criminal activity at hud .
fully realize my colleagues and i is we not a court ... etc '' .
by any `` reasonable '' man criterion , have tried mr. lantos and his colleagues a whole bunch of people and convicted .
apparently , is in their verdict .
right now be pursuing they evidence .
be that not a bad way to proceed , just somewhat different from standard american practice .
how was referred that practice to when was i in school ?
of course , doth mr. lantos protest that simply seek his subcommittee information for legislative change .
is everything say mr. lantos that in his letter partially true .
be he right about his subcommittee 's responsibilities when come it to obtaining information from prior hud officials .
but if is his explanation of motivation true , why is so oriented his investigation as to identify criminal activity ?
no , simply wo n't wash mr. lantos 's complaints .
4 . that defend the journal `` the sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public that took place while was mr. pierce secretary of hud , '' etc. and so forth .
no , to my mind , `` did not defend the journal sleaze , fraud , waste , embezzlement , influence-peddling and abuse of the public trust ... ''
defended it appropriate constitutional safeguards and practical common sense .
is the problem , which so rightly pointed out the journal in a number of articles , not the likes of mr. lantos , after all who is really a bit player on the stage , but the attempt by congress to enhance itself into a quasi-parliamentary/judicial body .
( of course , have also got we a judiciary that seek the same objective ) .
is the system the problem , not an individual member .
can always have individuals slapped their hands .
it 's when do n't occur such slapping that have got we trouble .
by any means do not defend i hud management .
but think i is the kind of congressional investigation that has been pursued a far greater danger to american notions of liberty and freedom than could possibly generate any incompetency ( and , yes , maybe criminality ) within hud .
was the last time saw i a similar congressional hearing when did `` tail '' gunner joe mccarthy his work .
disagree i with the statement by mr. lantos that should not draw one against former hud officials who assert their fifth amendment privilege against self-incrimination in congressional hearings an adverse inference .
state the fifth amendment that `` shall be compelled no person to be a witness against himself , in any criminal case , '' in relevant part .
preclude this privilege against self-incrimination the drawing of an adverse inference against a criminal defendant who choose not to testify .
in a criminal case , thus , can not comment a prosecutor on a defendant 's failure to testify nor can be compelled the defendant to take the stand as a witness , thus forcing him `` to take the fifth '' .
however , have been limited the privilege , to protect the defendant in criminal matters only in accordance with its plain language .
have specifically recognized the supreme court and some states that `` do not preclude the fifth amendment the inference where is claimed the privilege by a party to a civil cause '' .
in a civil case , thus , may be called a defendant may be forced he to testify or take the fifth , as a witness , and may permit his taking of the fifth the drawing of an adverse inference against him in the civil matter .
may take he the fifth in a civil matter if only have he a good faith and justifiable belief that may subject his testimony him to criminal prosecution .
is not based allowing the defendant to take the fifth in a civil matter on a constitutional right to refuse to testify where harm one 's testimony him in the civil matter , but because could be unconstitutionally used the testimony in the civil matter against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution .
may order a court absent the risk of such prosecution , the defendant to testify .
when asserted mr. pierce the fifth in a noncriminal proceeding , after particularly presumably receiving extensive advice from legal counsel , thus , must conclude one that held he a good-faith , justifiable belief that could be used his testimony against him in a subsequent criminal prosecution .
have the subcommittee , congress and the american public every right to draw the adverse inference and to concur with mr. pierce 's own belief that could help his testimony convict him of a crime .
was it friday the 13th , and plummeted the stock market nearly 200 points .
or is justified triskaidekaphobia -- fear of the number 13 -- ?
in academia , have been set up a so-called friday the 13th effect and shot down by different professors .
found robert kolb and ricardo rodriguez , professors of finance at the university of miami , evidence that is spooked the market by friday the 13th .
but have since been shown their study , which spanned the 1962-85 period , to be jinxed by an unlucky choice of data .
in the '70s , took the market falls nine times in a row on friday the you-know-what .
but tend the date to be a plus , not a minus , for stocks , according to yale hirsch , a collector of stock market lore .
found another study that had the 82 fridays the 13th in the 1940-1987 period higher than average returns -- higher even than fridays in general , which tend to be strong days for stock prices .
on the only other friday the 13th this year , rose the dow jones industrial average about four points .
say professor kolb was published tongue-in-cheek the original study , titled friday the 13th , part vii , .
in a similar vein , add he that could have played too , the anniversary of the 1987 crash and saturday 's full moon a part , in friday 's market activity .
reminiscent of those during the 1987 crash -- that as plummeted stock prices and escalated trading activity , went some phone calls to market makers in over-the-counter stocks unanswered .
said robert king , senior vice president of otc trading at robinson-humphrey co. in atlanta `` could n't get we dealers to answer their phones , '' .
`` was it -lcb- like -rcb- the friday before black monday '' two years ago .
whether had unanswered phone calls any effect or not , sank far less than those on the new york and american exchanges nasdaq stocks .
nonetheless , suffered the nasdaq composite index its biggest point decline of the year and its sixth worst ever , diving 14.90 , or 3 % , to 467.29 .
occurred ten points of the drop during the last 45 minutes of trading .
by comparison , tumbled the new york stock exchange composite 5.8 % friday and fell the american stock exchange composite 4 % .
on oct. 16 , 1987 , fell the nasdaq composite 16.18 points , or 3.8 % , followed three days later by its devastating 46.12-point , or 11 % slide , .
friday totaled nasdaq volume 167.7 million shares , which was only the fifth busiest day so far this year .
was set the single-day record of 288 million shares on oct. 21 ,
said e.e. `` buzzy '' geduld , president of herzog , heine , geduld , a new york company that make markets in thousands of otc issues `` was there n't a lot of volume because was it just impossible to get moved stock , '' .
was mr. king of robinson-humphrey and others quick to add that believe they stemmed the problem more from traders ' inability to handle the volume of calls , rather than a deliberate attempt to avoid making trades .
is the subject a sore one for nasdaq and its market-making companies , which was widely criticized two years ago following complaints from investors who could n't reach their brokers or trade in the chaos of the crash .
declared peter dapuzzo , head of retail equity trading at shearson lehman hutton , `` was it the last hour of trading on a friday : .
there was too many phones ringing and too many things happening to expect market makers to be as efficient as robots .
was it n't intentional , was we all busy . ''
said james tarantino , head of otc trading at hambrecht & quist in san francisco , `` was it just like two years ago , .
was trying everybody to do the same thing at the same time '' .
said proudly jeremiah mullins , the otc trading chief at dean witter reynolds in new york , that executed his company every order received it by the close of trading .
but , added he , `` can only take you one call at a time '' .
keep market makers supplies of stock on hand to maintain orderly trading when occur imbalances .
when is selling so frenzied , fall steeply and fast prices .
faced with the possibility of heavy losses on the stocks in their inventories , two years ago , began market makers themselves dumping shares , exacerbating the slide in otc stock prices .
said traders on friday , was selling again , some market makers .
but , with sagging profits on wall street since the crash , have kept companies smaller share stockpiles on hand .
said mr. tarantino of hambrecht & quist fell some prices without taking trades place , as kept market makers dropping the prices at which would buy they shares .
said he `` was hitting everyone everyone else 's bid , '' .
while incurred otc companies losses on friday , so , said trading officials was the damage n't as bad as was it in 1987 .
`` two years ago was carrying we huge inventories and was that the big culprit .
'' said mr. king of robinson-humphrey do n't know i of anyone carrying now , big inventories .
said tony cecin , head of equity trading at piper , jaffray & hopwood in minneapolis , that actually made piper jaffray money on friday .
said he helped it that is his inventory a third smaller now than was two years ago , it .
said joseph hardiman , president of the national association of securities dealers , which oversee the nasdaq computerized trading system , that despite the rush of selling , never considered he the situation an `` emergency '' .
said he `` was the pace of trading orderly , '' .
`` worked beautifully , nasdaq 's small order execution system '' as did the automated system for larger trades , according to mr. hardiman .
nevertheless , undoubtedly will shake the shock of another steep plunge in stock prices many investors ' confidence .
in the past , thrived the otc market on a firm base of small-investor participation .
because have n't returned nasdaq 's trading volume to pre-crash levels , hope traders and otc market officials the damage wo n't be permanent .
but is they worried .
lamented mr. mullins of dean witter `` was just starting we to get back , the public 's confidence '' .
more troubling is the prospect that could permanently erode the overall collapse in stock prices the base of small-investor support was struggling the otc market to rebuild in the wake of the october 1987 crash .
say mr. cecin of piper jaffray would allay some action from government policy makers investor fears .
say he wo n't take it much more `` to scare out of retail investors , the hell '' .
on friday came the sellers big and small institutional investors , as well as individual investors and market makers from all corners of the otc market -- .
but said grateful traders generally ranged the sell orders from 20,000 shares to 50,000 shares , compared with blocks of 500,000 shares or more two years ago .
said shearson 's mr. dapuzzo nervously sold retail investors stock friday and never returned to bargain-hunt .
was institutional investors , which had been selling stock throughout last week to lock in handsome gains made through the third quarter , calmer .
said mr. dapuzzo `` had we a good amount of selling from institutions , but not as much panic , '' .
`` if could n't sell they , put back some of them the shares on the shelf '' .
in addition , said he , placed some bigger institutional investors bids to buy some otc stocks was beaten down whose prices .
in addition , said mr. dapuzzo sent computer-guided program selling of otc stocks in the russell index of 2000 small stocks and the standard & poor 's 500-stock index occasional `` waves `` through the market .
was hammered nasdaq 's biggest stocks .
tumbled the nasdaq 100 index of the largest nonfinancial issues , including the big otc technology issues , 4.2 % , or 19.76 , to 449.33 .
dropped the nasdaq financial index of giant insurance and banking stocks 2 % , or 9.31 , to 462.98 .
have the otc market only a handful of takeover-related stocks .
but fell sharply they .
for instance , have offered mccaw cellular communications , to buy lin broadcasting as well as metromedia 's new york city cellular telephone interests , and in a separate transaction , sell certain mccaw properties to contel cellular .
lost mccaw 8 % , or 3 1/2 , to 40 .
dropped lin broadcasting , 5 1/2 , or 5 % , to 107 1/2 .
was the turnover in both issues roughly normal .
on a day when did n't sit well negative takeover-related news with investors , said commercial intertech , a maker of engineered metal parts , advised haas & partners it that do n't plan it to pursue its previously reported $ 27.50-a-share bid to buy the company .
plummeted commercial intertech 6 to 26 .
also tumbled the issues of companies with ties to the junk bond market friday .
on the otc market , slid first executive , a big buyer of the high-risk , high-yield issues , 2 to 12 1/4 .
among other otc issues , dropped intel , 2 1/8 to 33 7/8 ; lost laidlaw transportation 1 1/8 to 19 1/2 ; was the american depositary receipts of jaguar off 1/4 to 10 1/4 ; slipped mci communications 2 1/4 to 43 1/2 ; fell apple computer 3 to 45 3/4 and dropped nike 2 1/4 to 66 3/4 .
is the key u.s. and foreign annual interest rates below a guide to general levels but do n't always represent actual transactions .
is the minimum unit $ 100,000 .
is these rate indications n't directly comparable ; vary widely lending practices by location .
said pension funds , insurers and other behemoths of the investing world began they scooping up stocks during friday 's market rout .
and plan they to buy more today .
rightly or wrongly , appear many giant institutional investors to be fighting the latest war by applying the lesson learned they in the october 1987 crash : pays off buying at the bottom .
to be sure , might put away big investors their checkbooks in a hurry if open sharply lower stocks today .
could still panic they and bail out of the market .
but indicate their 1987 performance that wo n't abandon they stocks unless get conditions far worse .
said john w. rogers , president of chicago-based ariel capital management inc. , which manage $ 1.1 billion of stocks `` last time , got rewarded we for going out and buying stocks when was the panic the worst , '' .
spent mr. rogers for `` our favorite stocks that have fallen apart '' half his cash on hand friday .
expect he to invest the rest if weaken further the market .
was n't daunted denver-based portfolio manager james craig when shaved friday 's rout $ 40 million from the value of the $ 752 million janus fund oversee he .
said he `` waited i to make sure had kicked through , all the program trades '' .
then jumped he into the market :
`` spent i $ 30 million in the last half-hour '' .
also opened other money managers their wallets .
said frederick a. moran , president of moran asset management inc. , greenwich , conn `` was buying i at the close ( friday ) and 'll be buying again i because know i be getting we good value , '' .
`` there is no justification on the fundamental level for this crash '' .
can decide unlike mutual funds , which can be forced to sell stockholdings when rush investors to withdraw money , big investors such as pension funds and insurance companies to ride out market storms without jettisoning stock .
most often , do they just that , because have proved stocks to be the best-performing long-term investment , attracting about $ 1 trillion from pension funds alone .
said stephen b. timbers , chief investment officer of chicago-based kemper financial services inc `` if bought you after the crash , did very very well you off the bottom , '' .
for one , added two years ago the $ 56 billion california public employees retirement system , $ 1 billion to its stock portfolio .
said `` taught the last crash institutional investors that have they to be long-term holders , and that ca n't react they to short-term events , good or bad , '' stephen l. nesbitt , senior vice president for the pension consultants wilshire associates in santa monica , calif .
`` regretted `` so '' those that pulled out ( of stocks ) it , '' said he , doubt i 'll see you any significant changes in institutional portfolios as a result of friday 's decline .
leave even friday 's slump investors ahead more than 20 % , well above the annual average for stocks over several decades .
said james d. awad , president of new york-based bmi capital corp `` could go down you 400 points and still have a good year in the market , '' .
however , worry mr. awad , that `` could go down the market 800 or 900 points in the next few days .
can happen it before can turn around you '' .
said he discern he many parallels with 1987 , including the emphasis on takeover stocks and the re-emergence of computerized program trading .
said he , `` is `` the only thing do n't have you , '' the ` portfolio insurance ' phenomenon overlaid on the rest . ''
have abandoned most institutional investors the portfolio insurance hedging technique , which is widely thought to have worsened the 1987 crash .
was designed this tactic not really insurance , to soften the blow of declining stock prices and generate an offsetting profit by selling waves of s&p futures contracts .
in its severest test , did n't work the $ 60 billion of portfolio insurance in effect in the 1987 crash , as disappeared stock buyers and became stock and futures prices disconnected .
said money managers even without portfolio insurance , was market conditions grim friday , .
said neil weisman , had converted whose new york-based chilmark capital partners 85 % of its $ 220 million investment pool to cash in recent months , was besieged he by wall street firms friday asking him to take stock off their hands .
said mr. weisman , who , declined happy with his returns on investments chalked up earlier , the offers `` got we calls from big block houses asking us if want we to make bids on anything , '' .
predict mr. weisman will appear stocks to stabilize in the next few days before declining again , trapping more investors .
said he `` think i it will be a rigor mortis rally , '' .
meanwhile , brought friday a reprieve for money managers had put whose investment styles them at odds with the market rally .
especially gleeful was the short sellers , who have been pounded by this year 's market climb .
sell the shorts borrowed shares , hoping to profit by replacing later them at a lower price .
is the nation 's largest short-selling operation feshbach brothers , palo alto , calif. , which said that had shown up to that point its short positions losses of 10 % for the year last may .
said the firm 's kurt feshbach `` be we ahead for the year because of friday , '' .
`` be not making we a killing , but had we a good day .
said food and drug administration spokesman jeff nesbit have turned over the agency evidence in a criminal investigation concerning vitarine pharmaceuticals inc. to the u.s. attorney 's office in baltimore .
have been charged neither vitarine nor any of the springfield gardens , n.y. , company 's officials or employees with any crimes .
won vitarine approval to market a version of a blood pressure medicine but acknowledged that substituted it a smithkline beecham plc product as its own in tests .
also said mr. nesbit have asked the fda bolar pharmaceutical co. to recall its urinary tract antibiotic at the retail level .
said the spokesman but so far have n't complied the company with that request , .
said mr. nesbit only agreed bolar , the subject of a criminal investigation by the fda and the inspector general 's office of the health and human services department , to recall `` as far down as direct customers , mostly wholesalers , '' two strengths of its version of macrodantin .
earlier began bolar , of copiague , n.y. , a voluntary recall of both its 100 milligram and 50 milligram versions of the drug .
have said the fda presented it evidence uncovered it to the company indicating that substituted bolar the brand-name product for its own to gain government approval to sell generic versions of macrodantin .
have denied bolar that switched it the brand-name product for its own in such testing .
plan the west german retailer asko deutsche kaufhaus ag to challenge the legality of a widely employed anti-takeover defense of companies in the netherlands .
could become the eventual court decision a landmark in dutch corporate law because the lawsuit plan asko to file would be the first to challenge the entire principle and practice of issuing companies voting preferred shares to management-controlled trusts to dilute voting power of common stockholders .
noted asko 's dutch lawyers up to now have been challenged only specific aspects of these defenses , though unsuccessfully , .
should uphold the courts the validity of this type of defense , will then ask asko the court to overturn such a vote-diluting maneuver recently deployed by koninklijke ahold nv .
say asko had n't the dutch-based international food retailer reasonable grounds to issue preferred stock to a friendly trust and thus dilute the worth and voting power of asko and other shareholders .
speaking through its dutch lawyers , also disclosed asko hold it a 15 % stake in ahold .
was previously thought it held asko a 13.6 % stake that was accumulated since july .
said a spokesman for ahold is his company confident of its own position and the propriety of the preferred-share issue .
termed he asko 's legal actions as `` unproductive '' to international cooperation among european retailers .
is chase manhattan bank chairman willard butcher a conservative banker and a loyal republican , but on friday morning had he few kind words for president bush 's economic policy-making .
said he `` there is some very significant issues out there , such as the fiscal deficit , the trade deficit , our relations with japan , that have to be the subject of major initiatives , '' in an interview .
`` 'd like i to see that initiative , and have n't i .
there is n't a big shot , an agenda '' .
a few hours later , dropped the stock market 190 points .
tried politicians to finger each other for the blame , although doubt many analysts that was washington singly responsible for wall street 's woes .
but make mr. butcher 's comments clear : wonder one thing some on wall street if is anyone in charge of economic policy .
-- by 11:59 p.m. tonight , must order president bush $ 16 billion of automatic , across-the-board cuts in government spending to comply with the gramm-rudman budget law .
is the cuts necessary because have failed congress and the administration to reach agreement on a deficit-cutting bill .
said house budget committee chairman leon panetta ( d. , calif . ) `` simply do n't have we strong leadership to try to reduce the deficit and make tough choices , '' yesterday on nbc news 's `` meet the press '' .
-- for the last two weeks , have been engaged the bush administration and the federal reserve in a semi-public battle over international economic policy .
have been trying the administration to push lower the dollar ; have been resisting the fed .
said lawrence kudlow , a bear , stearns & co. economist , `` is one of the things that continue to worry me this monetary warfare between the treasury department and the federal reserve board , '' on abc 's `` this week '' .
-- have sent out the administration confusing signals about its response to a recent spate of airline takeovers .
last month , forced transportation secretary sam skinner northwest airlines to reduce a stake held by klm royal dutch airlines .
but have since run he into opposition from the treasury and the white house over that decision .
and have kept he mum on how might affect his decision a bid for united airlines , which include a big stake by british airways plc .
say some analysts was uncertainty about washington 's anti-takeover policy one reason that fell through financing for the united airlines takeover -- the event that triggered the market drop .
in many ways , is the backdrop to friday 's stock decline eerily similar to that of october 1987 's 508-point crash .
then , as now , was the budget debate behind schedule and was automatic spending cuts within days of taking hold .
was locked the treasury in a battle over international economic policy , although at that time was it with west german officials rather than the federal reserve .
and was making concern about official actions aimed at takeovers -- then by the tax-writing house ways and means committee rather than the transportation department -- markets nervous .
brought the 1987 crash the reagan administration and democratic lawmakers to the table for the first budget summit , resulting in a two-year plan to reduce the deficit by more than $ 76 billion -- though even actually rose the deficit by nearly $ 12 billion during that period .
but , barring further drops in the market this week , do n't seem a similar outcome likely this year .
agree lawmakers and administration officials that by itself , is friday 's drop , n't enough to force back to the table both sides to try to reach a deficit-reduction agreement that would be more serious and more far-reaching than last spring 's gimmick-ridden plan , which still is n't fully implemented .
is one of the biggest reasons that is new talks n't likely to come about that , as learned everyone in 1987 , can survive the economy and the market a one-day 508-point tumble .
said rep. panetta `` thought everybody was looking we at a repetition of 1929 , that was looking we at a recession , '' yesterday in an interview .
`` did not happen that .
learned they could survive they it without much problem '' .
but privately agree administration officials with mr. panetta , who said `` is going a precipitous drop this week to force the president and congress to take a much harder look at fiscal policy '' .
said senate finance committee chairman lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) `` there is an underlying concern on the part of the american people -- and should be there - that have not gone far enough the administration in cutting this deficit and that congress has been unwilling to cut what asked the administration us to cut , '' .
nevertheless , clearly will take it more than friday 's 190-point decline to overcome the bitter feelings that have developed between lawmakers and white house budget director richard darman over the capital-gains fight .
is hill democrats particularly angry over mr. bush 's claim that was the capital-gains cut part of april 's budget accord and his insistence on combining it with the deficit-reduction legislation .
said senate majority leader george mitchell ( d. , maine ) `` there is no prospect of any so-called grand compromise or deal next year because simply did n't live up the administration to this year 's deal , '' yesterday on cbs news 's `` face the nation '' .
during last week 's maneuverings on the deficit-cutting bill and the capital-gains issue , there was signs that was senate republicans and the administration at odds .
at the very moment that was negotiating senate republicans a deal to exclude capital gains from the deficit-reduction legislation , told white house spokesman marlin fitzwater reporters that was it the president 's policy to include it .
when was reached an agreement to strip capital gains from the legislation , hailed oregon sen. bob packwood , the ranking gop member of the tax-writing senate finance committee , it .
asked if agreed the administration , curtly replied he `` will have the adminstration to speak for itself '' : .
could spur friday 's market tumble action on reconciling the house and senate versions of the deficit-reduction measure , a process that is n't expected to begin until tomorrow at the soonest .
expressed senate republicans the hope that would follow the house the lead of the senate , which on friday agreed to drop a variety of spending measures and tax breaks that would have increased the fiscal 1990 deficit .
said sen. warren rudman ( r. , n.h . ) `` need the market a strong signal that be we serious about deficit reduction , and is the best way to do that for to strip the house of representatives their bill of similar provisions , '' yesterday .
estimated the white house office of management and budget , determine whose calculations whether is met the gramm-rudman targets , that would cut the house-passed deficit-reduction measure the fiscal 1990 shortfall by $ 6.2 billion , almost half of the congressional budget office 's estimate of $ 11.0 billion .
said rep. panetta that omb 's figure would still be enough to avoid permanent across-the-board cuts , but added `` be getting here we very close to the margins '' : .
was no one in washington willing to take the blame for provoking friday 's drop in the stock market .
but was some players quick to seize the moment .
before had set the sun on friday , issued richard rahn , the supply-side chief economist of the u.s. chamber of commerce , a statement attributing the drop in stock prices to the senate decision to postpone action on capital gains .
said he `` was spooked investors , who had been holding assets in anticipation of a more favorable time to sell , , '' .
`` there have been many preposterous reasons advanced to support a capital-gains tax cut , '' said sen. mitchell during his television appearance , `` but suggest i is that perhaps more than any of the others .
is tentatively scheduled the following u.s. treasury , corporate and municipal offerings for sale this week , according to dow jones capital markets report :
matched small investors their big institutional brethren in anxiety over the weekend , but seemed most to be taking a philosophical approach and said was resigned they to riding out the latest storm in the stock market .
said boston lawyer christopher sullivan `` be not losing i faith in the market , '' as watched he the market plunge on a big screen in front of a brokerage firm .
but be he not so sure about everyone else .
predicted mr. sullivan , include whose investments amr corp. 's american airlines unit and several mutual funds `` think i on monday are going the small ( investors ) to panic and sell , '' .
`` and think i is going institutions to come in and buy ...
be going i to hold on .
if sell now , i 'll take i a big loss '' .
evinced some an optimism that had been rewarded when did n't flee they the market in 1987 .
said lucy crump , a 78-year-old retired housewife in lexington , ky . `` oh , bet i it 'll be up 50 points on monday , ''
said mrs. crump lost her ashwood investment club 's portfolio about one-third of its value following the black monday crash , `` but '' got discouraged no one , and gained back we that -- and more .
at the annual congress of the national association of investors corp. at the hyatt regency hotel in minneapolis , was the scene calm .
was attending some 500 investors representing investor clubs from around the u.s. when started the market to slide friday .
but said robert showalter , an official of the association , is planned no special bulletins or emergency meetings of the investors ' clubs .
said john snyder , a member of a los angeles investors ' club `` hope we to take advantage of it , '' .
have he four stocks to buy if drop the prices to the level want he in mind .
is reacting so calmly , however , not everyone and wonder many about the long-term implications of what is widely viewed as the cause of friday 's slide , reluctance by banks to provide financing for a buy-out of ual corp. , parent of united airlines .
said marc perkins , a tampa , fla. , investment banker , is the market drop one of `` a tremendous number of signs that is ending the leveraged take-out era .
there be no question that there be a general distaste for leverage among lenders .
'' believe however , mr. perkins that could be stabilized the market if step back california investor marvin davis in to the united bidding with an offer of $ 275 a share , .
say sara albert , a 34-year-old dallas law student , be she generally skittish about the stock market and the takeover activity that seem to fuel it .
`` have i this feeling that be built it on sand , say she , that rise the market `` but '' there be no foundation to it '' .
pulled out of the market she and her husband most of their investments after the 1987 crash , although still own she some texaco stock .
partly because of concern about the economy and because partly recently quit she her job as a legal assistant to go to school , `` think i want we to be a lot more liquid at this point '' .
wonder others can stand the small investor how many more of these shocks .
said san francisco attorney david greenberg `` all assumed we was october '87 a one-time shot , '' .
`` told we the little guy could only happen once it in a lifetime , come on back .
now be happening again it '' .
got mr. greenberg out just before the 1987 crash and , to his regret , never went back as even soared the market .
this time be he ready to buy in `` when wear off the panic '' .
still , add he `` ca n't have we happen very often this kind of thing : .
when get the little guy frightened , hurt badly the big guys .
ca n't survive merrill lynch without the little guy '' .
have tiptoed back small investors into the market following black monday , but mostly through mutual funds .
say leslie quick jr. , chairman of the quick & reilly discount brokerage firm discount brokerage customers `` have been in the market somewhat but not whole hog like was two years ago , they '' .
say hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles scwhab corp. , schwab customers `` have been neutral to cautious recently about stocks '' .
say mr. quackenbush is individual investors still angry about program trading , .
say avner arbel , a cornell university finance professor , will have government regulators to more closely control program trading `` to win back the confidence of the small investor '' .
but be it not only the stock market that has some small investors worried .
said alan helfman , general sales manager of a chrysler dealership in houston , have he and his mother some joint stock investments , but is the overall economy his chief worry .
said he `` took these high rollers a big bath today , '' in his showroom , which is within a few miles of the multi-million dollar homes of some of houston 's richest citizens .
`` and can tell i you that is n't going a high roller to come in tomorrow and buy a chrysler tc by maserati '' .
and , finally , there was the gloaters .
`` got i out in 1987 .
everything , '' said pascal antori , an akron , ohio , plumbing contractor who was visiting chicago and stopped by fidelity investments ' lasalle street office .
`` just stopped i to see how much would have lost i by '' .
would ever get back mr. antori in ?
when come it to money : once bitten , 2,000 times shy .
is the crowded field for notebook-sized computers about to become a lot more crowded .
is expected compaq computer corp. 's long-awaited entry today into the notebook field to put immediate heat on others in the market , especially zenith electronics corp. , the current market leader , and on a swarm of promising start-ups .
extend compaq 's series of notebooks a trend toward downsizing in the personal computer market .
already have produced one manufacturer called a clipboard-sized computer a notepad , and have introduced two others even smaller `` palmtops '' .
but is still considered those machines novelties , with keyboards could love only a munchkin and screens to match .
say analysts be they faster and carry more memory than anything else of their size on the market -- and be priced aggressively they at $ 2,400 to $ 5,000 .
comes all of this in a machine that weigh only six pounds and fit comfortably into most briefcases .
in recent months , all have introduced compaq 's competition , including zenith , toshiba corp. , tandy corp. and nec corp. portables that weigh approximately the same and that are called perhaps misleadingly notebooks -- .
noting that is most such machines about two inches thick , take one analyst , exception to the name .
say he `` is this n't quite a notebook -- call i it a phonebook , '' .
ca n't be said that of the $ 2,400 notepad computer introduced a few weeks ago by grid systems corp. , a unit of tandy .
instead of a keyboard , feature it a writing surface , an electronic pen and the ability `` to read block printing '' .
at 4 1/2 pounds , may be too ambitiously named it , but nevertheless open up it the kind of marketing possibilities that make froth analysts .
is n't far behind palmtops .
introduced two months ago in europe and in the u.s. in early september , weigh atari corp. 's portfolio , less than a pound , cost a mere $ 400 and run on three aa batteries , yet have the power to run some spreadsheets and word processing programs .
however , say some critics , is restricted its ability to run commonplace programs by a limited memory .
meanwhile , have introduced poquet computer corp. , a much more sophisticated palmtop that can run lotus 1-2-3 and other sophisticated software programs , but cost five times as much .
at stake is call mike swavely , compaq 's president of north america operations , what `` the holy grail of the computer industry '' -- the search for `` a real computer in a package so small can take everywhere you it '' .
is the market so new , know yet nobody how big can be it .
say tom humphries , director of marketing for grid `` have had i trying a lot of people to sell services to find out how big is it , me '' .
`` whether be it $ 5 billion or $ 3.5 billion , do n't it matter .
be it huge . ''
consider the growth of portables , which now comprise 12 % of all personal computer sales .
have become laptops -- generally anything under 15 pounds -- the fastest-growing personal computer segment , with doubling sales this year .
also have precluded it use of the faster , more powerful microprocessors found in increasing numbers of desktop machines .
also have limited size and weight considerations screen displays .
can get the competitive sniping pretty petty at times .
for example , criticize a poquet spokesman , the atari portfolio because require it three batteries while need the poquet only two .
is dismissed both palmtops by notebook makers , who argue that be they too small -- a problem also encountered poquet in focus groups , admit gerry purdy , director of marketing .
trying to avoid the `` gadget '' label , responded poquet , with the tag line , `` the poquet pc -- a very big computer '' .
despite the sniping , few question the inevitability of the move to small machines that do n't make compromises .
toward that end , say experts will take the real battle place between center-stage players like toshiba , zenith and now compaq .
is considered compaq 's new machines a direct threat to start-up firms like dynabook inc. , which introduced a computer that , like compaq 's , use an intel 286 microprocessor and have a hard disk drive in june .
but is the dynabook product twice as heavy and costs more than compaq 's .
also spell compaq 's announcement for zenith , which last year had 28 % of the u.s. laptop market but recently agreed to sell its computer business to cie. des machines bull , the french government-owned computer maker trouble .
will vote zenith holders in december on the proposed $ 635 million sale , a price that could slip because is pegged it to zenith 's share and sales .
is already taking compaq aim at zenith 's market share .
note pointedly rod canion , compaq 's president and chief executive officer , that use zenith 's $ 2,000 minisport an `` unconventional '' two-inch floppy disk , whereas use compaq 's new machines the more common 3 1/2-inch disk .
john p. frank , president of zenith data systems , simply shrugs off such criticism , noting that was 3 1/2-inch floppies also `` unconventional '' when first replaced they five-inch disks .
argue he `` do n't look we at it as not being a standard , look we at it as a new standard , '' .
do n't see analysts that way it .
say gene talsky , president of professional marketing management inc `` ca n't imagine i that 'll talk you to anyone who wo n't tell you is this dynamite for compaq and a stopper for everyone else , '' .
adds bill lempesis , senior industry analyst for dataquest , a high-technology market research firm : `` basically think we that is these very hot products .
is the problem is going compaq to have that they wo n't be able to make enough of them '' .
include compaq 's machines the 3 1/2-inch floppy disk drive , a backlit screen that is only 1/4-inch thick and an internal expansion slot for a modem -- in other words , almost all the capabilities of a typical office machine .
undoubtedly will follow others , but believe most analysts have compaq at least a six-month lead on the competition .
for example , feature toshiba 's line of portables , the t-1000 , which is in the same weight class but is much slower and have less memory , and the t-1600 , which also use a 286 microprocessor , but which weigh almost twice as much and is three times the size .
marketed in japan , may hit a third model , the u.s. by the end of the first quarter of 1990 , but by then , say analysts , will have established compaq itself as one of three major players .
say analysts , have been burned twice international business machines corp. , in trying to enter the laptop market and show no signs of trying to get anytime soon into notebooks .
received honeywell inc. and international business machines corp. air force contracts to develop integrated circuits for use in space .
totaled honeywell 's contract $ 69.7 million , and ibm 's $ 68.8 million .
received boeing co. a $ 46.7 million air force contract for developing cable systems for the minuteman missile .
received general dynamics corp. a $ 29 million air force contract for electronic-warfare training sets .
received grumman corp. an $ 18.1 million navy contract to upgrade aircraft electronics .
received avco corp. an $ 11.8 million army contract for helicopter engines .
said the national institute of statistics caused sharp increases in the price of fresh produce spain 's september consumer price index to shoot up 1.1 % from the previous month , pushing the annual rate of inflation to 6.8 % , friday .
is the monthly increase the highest recorded in the past four years .
have the index , which registered 156.8 at the end of september , a base of 100 set in 1983 and is n't seasonally adjusted .
have risen prices 5.9 % in the first nine months of the year , outstripping both the initial 3 % inflation goal set by the government of socialist prime minister felipe gonzalez and the second , revised goal of 5.8 % .
announced the bank of japan in september rose japan 's wholesale prices 3.3 % from a year earlier and was up 0.4 % from the previous month , friday .
stood the wholesale price index at 90.1 , compared with a 1985 base of 100 .
hit twenty-four new york stock exchange issues 52-week highs during friday 's trading , despite the dow jones industrial average 's 190.58-point plunge .
held up relatively better than other market sectors stocks of utilities during the sell-off .
and among the issues hitting new highs was detroit edison co. and niagara mohawk power corp .
included other major issues hitting highs american telephone & telegraph co. , westinghouse electric corp. , exxon corp. and cigna corp. , the big insurer .
of course , hit many more issues -- 93 -- new lows .
included these international business machines corp. , which during friday 's session traded below $ 100 a share for the first time since june 1984 .
closed down $ 5.625 ibm at $ 102 , .
included other new lows navistar international corp. , union carbide corp. and bethlehem steel corp. , are included all of which in the industrial average .
meanwhile , braved two initial public offerings the cascading market in their maiden day of national over-the-counter trading friday .
closed up from its $ 15 offering price shares of rally 's inc. , an operator of fast-food restaurants , at $ 17 each , and closed up from its $ 12 offering price shares of employee benefit plans inc. , a health-care consultant , at $ 14.125 , .
said ford motor co. acquired it 5 % of the shares in jaguar plc .
said the company is being notified jaguar , the london stock exchange and the u.s. securities and exchange commission of the transactions , .
advised the u.s. federal trade commission ford that would n't raise it any objection to the acquisition of as much as 15 % of jaguar shares last week .
disclosed the no. 2 auto maker that want it to buy as much as 15 % of the british luxury-car maker , the maximum allowed under current united kingdom government restrictions last month .
said general motors corp. had discussed it the possibility of a joint venture with jaguar before began ford buying shares .
said gm still is talking it with jaguar about acquiring a minority interest .
investors who bought stock with borrowed money -- is that , `` on margin '' -- may be more worried than most following friday 's market drop .
be that because can require their brokers them to sell some shares or put up more cash to enhance the collateral backing their loans .
in october 1987 , was thought these margin calls to have contributed to the downward spiral of the stock market .
typically , occur a margin call when fall the price of a stock below 75 % of its original value .
if do n't put up the investor the extra cash to satisfy the call , may begin the brokerage firm liquidating the securities .
but said some big brokerage firms do n't expect they major problems as a result of margin calls .
said a spokesman for shearson lehman hutton inc. margin calls since friday `` have been higher than usual , but reasonable , '' .
said a spokesman `` do n't expect merrill lynch & co. officials margin calls -lcb- -rcb- to be as big a factor as in 1987 '' because is buying fewer individual investors stock on margin , .
said hugo quackenbush , senior vice president at charles schwab corp. , the san francisco-based discount brokerage firm , did n't expect he any immediate problems with margin calls for schwab customers .
said he had increased schwab margin requirements `` so '' have customers more of a cushion .
added he `` learned we a lesson in 1987 about volatility : .
following rival hertz corp. 's lead , said avis inc. , is backing out of frequent-flier programs with three airlines it .
said the garden city , n.y. , car-rental company wo n't renew it contracts with nwa inc. 's northwest airlines unit , pan am corp. 's pan american world airways unit and midway airlines at the end of this year .
but remain it involved in programs with amr corp. 's american airlines unit and delta air lines .
put industry estimates avis 's annual cost of all five programs at between $ 8 million and $ 14 million .
would n't specify a spokesman for avis the costs but said the three airlines being dropped account for `` far less than half of the total '' .
both said budget rent a car corp. , of chicago , and national car rental systems inc. , of minneapolis , had they no plans to follow suit .
in fact , indicated budget saw it some benefit to staying involved in these programs , in which earn renters frequent-flier miles and can get fliers car-rental discounts .
said bob wilson , budget 's vice president , marketing planning `` can not see i how can not benefit this news by hertz and avis budget 's programs , '' .
is northwest and midway two of the five airlines with which have budget agreements .
also participate along with four other airlines , including delta and usair group inc. 's usair unit national in the northwest frequent-flier program .
a month ago , said hertz , of park ridge , n.j. , that would drop it its marketing agreements at year end with delta , america west and texas air corp. 's continental airlines and eastern airlines , and that also would be ended sometime after dec. 31 pacts with american airlines , ual inc 's united airlines and usair ... .
at the time , said hertz amounted its annual fees to those airlines to $ 20 million and that topped the value of redeemed awards $ 15 million .
however , doubt analysts and competitors , was the numbers that high .
said budget is its frequent-flier costs `` substantially '' below avis 's level .
said robert d. cardillo , avis vice president of marketing , `` have significantly diminished the proliferation and costs attached to -lcb- frequent-flier programs -rcb- their value '' , .
said charles finnie , car-rental industry analyst at alex . brown & sons this year has been difficult for both hertz and avis , .
said he `` have been looking they to get down , their costs and is this a fairly sensible way to do it , '' .
is cutting down cbs inc. `` the pat sajak show '' to one hour from its current 90 minutes .
insisted cbs was the move n't a setback for the program , which is the network 's first entry into the late-night talk show format since 1972 .
said rod perth , who was named vice president of late night entertainment in august `` have i every intention of making this the best possible show and having run it one hour is the best way to it , '' .
`` will raise this the energy level of the show '' .
will continue cbs to program action-adventure shows to follow the sajak hour .
but will extend cbs news its four-hour `` nightwatch '' by 30 minutes and begin at 1:30 a.m .
despite a promising start , have slipped badly the show , finishing far below `` tonight '' on nbc , a unit of general electric co. , and `` nightline '' on abc-tv , a unit of capital cities/abc inc in the weekly ratings as compiled by a.c. nielsen co. , .
further fractioning is the addition of the `` arsenio hall show , '' syndicated by paramount communications inc the late-night audience .
preparing to fight with international business machines corp. for a piece of the mainframe business , said tandem computers inc. , expect it to post higher revenue and earnings for its fiscal fourth quarter ended sept. 30 .
said tandem expect it to report revenue of about $ 450 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share .
said james treybig , tandem 's chief executive officer reflect the results , which are in line with analysts ' estimates , `` a continued improvement in our u.s. business , '' .
in the year-earlier period , reported tandem net income of $ 30.1 million , or 31 cents a share , on revenue of $ 383.9 million .
expect tandem to report the full results for the quarter next week .
have predicted analysts that will report the cupertino , calif. , company revenue of $ 430 million to $ 460 million and earnings of 35 cents to 40 cents a share .
commenting on the results for the quarter , said mr. treybig came the strength of the company 's domestic business as `` a surprise '' to him , noting that exceeded sales `` in every region of the u.s. '' our plan .
said he was helped the company 's u.s. performance by `` a record quarter for new customers , '' .
make tandem `` fault-tolerant '' computers -- machines with built-in backup systems -- that run stock exchanges , networks of automatic tellers and other complex computer systems .
tomorrow is scheduled the company to announce its most powerful computer ever , which for the first time will bring it into direct competition with makers of mainframe computers .
is called tandem 's new high-end computer cyclone .
is prices for the machine , which can come in various configurations , $ 2 million to $ 10 million .
expect analysts the new computer to wrest away from ibm , the longtime leader in mainframes a hefty slice of business .
said `` believe we could siphon they perhaps two to three billion dollars from ibm over the next few years , '' george weiss , an analyst at the gartner group .
will spur that tandem 's growth .
said john levinson , an analyst at goldman , sachs & co `` i 'd be disappointed if grew the company by less than 20 % next year , '' .
is expected ibm to respond to tandem 's cyclone by discounting its own mainframes , which say analysts are roughly three times the price of a comparable system from tandem .
said mr. weiss `` obviously can give immediately , ibm bigger discounts to users '' .
but mr. treybig questions whether that will be enough to stop tandem 's first mainframe from taking on some of the functions that previously sought large organizations from big blue 's machines .
said he `` is the answer n't price reductions , but new systems , '' .
nevertheless , face tandem a variety of challenges , the biggest being that generally view customers the company 's computers as complementary to ibm 's mainframes .
is even mr. treybig reluctant to abandon this notion , insisting that is tandem 's new machines n't replacements for ibm 's mainframes .
said he `` be we after a little bigger niche , '' .
may turn out the stock market 's swoon to be good news for the economy .
in one wild hour of trading , managed the market to accomplish have been trying unsuccessfully , the bush administration what to do , for weeks .
is forcing it the federal reserve to ease its grip on credit and took out of a previously irrepressible dollar it the wind .
could reinvigorate the resulting decline in interest rates and the value of the dollar american business -- indeed , the entire economy .
may sound this strangely optimistic .
after all , until a few years ago , was viewed the stock market as a barometer of the national economy .
when went down , it by all tradition , followed the economy .
have changed that , partly because the two years following the worst stock-market plunge in history have been reasonably comfortable .
say university of chicago economist victor zarnowitz was the 1987 crash `` a false alarm however view you it , '' .
seem the market increasingly disconnected from the rest of the nation .
ca n't be traced its spasms to fundamental business conditions , nor do appear they to presage major shifts in the economy .
said john akers , chairman of international business machines corp. , `` have the market today a life of its own , '' saturday .
`` there be nothing rational about this kind of action '' .
of course , will be threatened the health of the economy if continue the market to dive this week .
do reduce sharply falling stock prices consumer wealth , damage business confidence and discourage the foreign investors upon whom now rely the u.s. for financial sustenance .
was battered the financial-services industry by the 1987 crash .
what 's more , although is the stock market far less overvalued today than two years ago , is the u.s. economy weaker .
is growth slower .
is profits softer .
is debt burdens heavier .
but if do n't continue the stock market to plummet , may well dominate the beneficial effects of lower interest rates and a lower dollar .
is now poised the fed , which until friday had been resisting moves to ease credit , to pour money into the economy if needed to soothe the markets .
may protest fed officials that do n't necessarily mean this a fundamental change in their interest-rate policies .
but suggest the experience of the 1987 crash is the fed likely to bring down short-term interest rates in its effort to calm markets .
anticipating the fed 's move , lowered down from 8.820 % the day before money traders a key interest rate known as the federal funds rate to 8.625 % late friday , .
is tiny movements in the rate , which is what charge banks each other for overnight loans , usually among the few visible tracks that leave the fed on the monetary markets .
also began the dollar to decline friday as caused the stock market 's plunge some investors to reassess their desire to invest in the u.s. .
have been arguing treasury officials that was out of whack with economic fundamentals , the dollar 's strength threatening to extinguish the export boom that have sustained manufacturers for several years for months .
have now apparently convinced the market drop foreign investors that was the treasury right about the overpriced dollar .
would be welcomed a modest drop in the dollar -- only a modest one , mind you -- by the u.s. .
was that n't the case in 1987 , when was the dollar so weak that seriously worried some economists and government officials that might collapse it producing panic among foreign investors and diminishing the flow of foreign capital to the u.s. , .
is another big difference between 1987 and 1989 n't so comforting .
in the third quarter of 1987 , spurted the economy at an inflation-adjusted annual rate of 5.3 % .
is the consensus among economists that grew it in the third quarter of 1989 , which ended two weeks ago a much more sluggish 2.3 % .
say economist lawrence chimerine of wefa group , a bala cynwyd , pa. , forecasting company `` is happening the plunge in stock prices at a time when have already slowed down , the economy '' .
`` is gone a lot of pent-up demand '' .
recall mr. zarnowitz , a longtime student of business cycles did drop consumer spending in the months following black monday 1987 -- `` but only slightly and for a short period of time , '' .
`` was offset that by strength elsewhere .
-lcb- -rcb- was the effects much less severe and less prolonged than had feared some or expected .
'' today , fret he , exports and business investment spending may be insufficient to pick up the slack if sink stock prices this week and if retrench consumers in reaction .
what 's more , have n't abated the corporate borrowing binge in the past two years .
note mr. chimerine `` have had we two more years of significant accumulation of debt ... just at the time when is being squeezed earnings , '' .
the more rely a company on borrowed money , the greater its sensitivity to an economic slowdown .
can withstand a company with a strong balance sheet an unanticipated storm ; may end up a highly leveraged company in bankruptcy court .
of course , know very well the fed , that -- hence its readiness to pump credit into the economy this morning .
but , in the process , risk the fed reigniting inflation .
even before friday 's events , was arguing harvard university economist benjamin friedman that the fed wo n't be able to live up to its tough words on eliminating inflation because of its responsibility to protect fragile financial markets , banks and highly leveraged corporations .
reason he is the biggest threat on the economic horizon right now n't recession , ; be it an outbreak of uncontrolled inflation .
in the end , suggested the 1987 collapse , do n't move the economy in lockstep with stock prices .
do , however , depend the economy on the confidence of businesses , consumers and foreign investors .
do n't exactly inspire a panic on wall street confidence .
suggested surveys that was consumer confidence high before friday .
is a 190-point drop n't likely to make much of a dent ; multiply a few times over , though , that and it will .
if is the reactions of executives gathered saturday at hot springs , va. , for the business council meetings typical , was n't overly rattled business leaders by friday 's decline .
and if become foreign investors a tad more cautious -- well , suggest the dollar 's recent strength that can stand the u.s. it .
on the bottom line , is the most comforting fact for the economic outlook that we 've been through this before .
two years ago , was about the only point of comparison the 1929 crash and the subsequent depression .
had the doomsayers a receptive audience .
permit the prosperity that followed black monday a more optimistic view today .
at the very least , is taking the establishment here comfort from the nation 's success in handling the last go-around .
as observed sen. lloyd bentsen ( d. , texas ) yesterday , `` avoided the fed a meltdown last time .
is they more sophisticated this time .
is expected the chemical industry to report that eroded profits in the third quarter because of skidding prices in the commodity end of the business .
have seen producers of commodity chemicals , the basic chemicals produced in huge volumes for other manufacturers , sharp inventory cutting by buyers .
also will be reporting these producers once the chief beneficiaries of the industry 's now fading boom , against exceptionally strong performances in the 1988 third quarter .
say leonard bogner , a chemical industry analyst at prudential bache research `` for some of these companies , this will be the first quarter with year-to-year negative comparisons , '' .
is expected dow chemical co. , which as of midyear had racked up eight consecutive record quarters , perhaps most prominent , to report that decreased profit in the latest quarter from a year earlier , if only by a shade .
though have aggressively diversified dow into specialty chemicals and pharmaceuticals , still have the company a big stake in polyethylene , which is used in packaging and housewares .
is analysts ' third-quarter estimates for the midland , mich. , company between $ 3.20 a share and $ 3.30 a share , compared with $ 3.36 a year ago , when was profit $ 632 million on sales of $ 4.15 billion .
declined a dow spokeswoman to comment on the estimates .
at the investment firm of smith barney , harris upham & co. , is seen the commodity-chemical segment pulling down overall profit for 20 companies representative of the whole industry by 8 % to 10 % .
say james wilbur , a smith barney analyst `` will find you the commodities off more than the others and the diversified companies about even or slightly better , '' .
project first boston corp. that will report 10 of the 15 companies follow it lower profit .
still , is expected some industry giants to report continuing gains , largely because is so much of their business outside commodity chemicals .
is thought du pont co. to have had steady profit growth in white pigments , fibers and polymers .
moreover , is helped the wilmington , del. , company when weaken prices on the commodity chemicals buy it for its own production needs , such as ethylene .
is divided analysts over whether will report du pont much of a gain in the latest quarter from its conoco inc. oil company .
in the 1988 third quarter , earned the company $ 461 million , or $ 1.91 a share , on sales of $ 7.99 billion .
declined du pont to comment .
too , is expected monsanto co. , to continue reporting higher profit , though even was hurt its sales of crop chemicals in the latest quarter by drought in northern europe and the western u.s. .
is expected the st. louis-based company to report again that is narrowing losses in its g.d. searle & co. pharmaceutical business .
continued searle to operate in the red through the first half of the year , but have said monsanto expect it searle to post a profit for all of 1989 .
run most estimates for monsanto between $ 1.70 and $ 2 a share .
a year ago , posted the company third-quarter profit of $ 116 million , or $ 1.67 a share , on sales of $ 2.02 billion .
declined monsanto to comment .
but is caught the commodity-chemical producers on the downside of a pricing cycle .
by some accounts on wall street and in the industry , is the inventory reductions near an end , which may presage firmer demand .
but say doubters could keep growing production capacity pressure on prices into the early 1990s .
in the latest quarter , at least , is expected profit to fall sharply .
for himont inc. , say leslie ravitz at salomon brothers `` how far down is it , do n't know we , '' .
is the projections in the neighborhood of 50 cents a share to 75 cents , compared with a restated $ 1.65 a share a year earlier , when was profit $ 107.8 million on sales of $ 435.5 million .
face himont lower prices for its mainstay product , polypropylene , while go forward it with a heavy capital investment program to bolster its raw material supply and develop new uses for polypropylene , include whose markets the packaging and automobile industries .
is the company , based in wilmington , del. , 81%-owned by montedison s.p . a. , milan , which have an offer outstanding for the himont shares do n't already own it .
at quantum chemical corp. , new york , is the trouble lower prices for polyethylene , higher debt costs and the idling of an important plant due to an explosion .
hedge some analysts their estimates for quantum , because is n't known it when will book the company certain one-time charges .
but range the estimates from break-even to 35 cents a share .
in the 1988 third quarter , earned quantum $ 99.8 million , or $ 3.92 a share , on sales of $ 724.4 million .
is expected another big polyethylene producer , union carbide corp. , to post profit of between $ 1 a share and $ 1.25 , compared with $ 1.56 a share a year earlier , when earned the company $ 213 million on sales of $ 2.11 billion .
all declined himont , quantum and union carbide to comment .
was priced the issue , which is puttable back to the company at par on oct. 15 , 1999 , at a spread of 50 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
rated single-a-1 by moody 's investors service inc. and single-a by standard & poor 's corp. , will be sold the non-callable issue through underwriters led by merrill lynch capital markets .
was priced the non-callable issue , which can be put back to the company in 1999 , at 99 basis points above the treasury 's 10-year note .
rated baa-1 by moody 's and triple-b-plus by s&p , will be sold the issue through underwriters led by morgan stanley & co .
backed by freddie mac 8 1/2 % securities with a weighted average remaining term to maturity of 28.4 years , was priced the offering , series 102 , before the market 's afternoon surge .
among classes for which was details available , ranged yields from 8.78 % , or 75 basis points over two-year treasury securities , to 10.05 % , or 200 basis points over 10-year treasurys .
is backed the offering , series 101 , by freddie mac 9 1/2 % securities .
was pricing details n't immediately available .
collateralized the agency 's first strips issue , by freddie mac 8 % securities pooled into a single security called a giant , will be divided into interest-only and principal-only securities .
is being sold the collateral by a thrift institution .
will be repackaged the principal-only securities into a freddie mac remic , series 103 , that will have six classes by bt securities .
will be sold separately the interest-only securities by bt securities .
pay the principal-only securities the principal from the underlying freddie mac 8 % securities , while pay the interest-only securities only interest .
said freddie mac was priced the principal-only securities to yield 8.45 % , at 58 1/4 assuming an average life of eight years and a prepayment of 160 % of the psa model .
was priced the interest-only securities to yield 10.72 % at 35 1/2 .
there was no major eurobond or foreign bond offerings in europe friday .
